---
layout: default
title: Gear
permalink: /gear/
nav_order: 5
has_children: true
---

# Gear

Gear in _Exalted_ is generally more abstract than in D&D or other systems you
may be familiar with. Most of the issues of gear are abstracted into the
Resources system.

## Resources

The [Resources Merit](/venture/character-creation/merits/#resources--to-)
represents your abstract wealth. In _Exalted_, you do not track the discrete
value of the items you possess. Instead, you consider their relative value to
your lifestyle.

The Resources value of an item represents the highest socioeconomic class for
which the item would be a significant burden. So, an item worth Resources ••
would be a noteable burden for someone with the Resources •• Merit.

Small purchases are counted against your monthly income and only really matter
the one time you buy them. Larger purchases are almost always financed -- debt
and the trade of debt is how humans managed wealth for most of history. If you
are frequently making purchases _at your exact Resources level_, you probably do
so by leveraging debt.

## What Are Things Worth?

**Resources --**: Most basic and common goods cost Resources --. You are simply
assumed to be able to buy as much of the basics as you need and makes sense in
the story. Resources -- is the category of "common goods." This includes things
like hunting knives, fishing spears, nets, common clothes, beer or wine, smoking
tobacco, feed for a farm animal for one month, a simple meal at an inn, and so
forth. Resources -- is usually settled through barter rather than an exchange of
currency.

**Resources 1**: Resources 1 is the category of goods that are uncommon
purchases for the peasantry. These things are _not_ necessarily rare or
expensive; instead, these are the kind of things where you can say, "if someone
buys these things regularly, they're better off than most." This category
includes things like farm animals themselves, nicer clothes in interesting
dyed colors, sake or opium, medicinal herbs, the short services of a mason or
carpenter, a fine meal for a whole family, and so forth. Resources 1 purchases
are more often than not resolved through barter, but some of the more
ledger-minded might use cash.

**Resources 2**: Resources 2 is the category for goods that are the upper limit
of what you might expect to find among the "common folk." Very successful
craftsmen and wealthy peasant leaders might be able to afford some of these
things occasionally. This category is appropriate for fine riding horses, a
small local manor, a closet of fine clothes, a fine vintage of wine, a skilled
imported slave, and so forth. Resources 2 is appropriate for the families of
wealthy peasants and the lower and middle tiers of the patriciate. Most deals in
this category are settled in cash; a few at the upper edge of this category may
be settled in smaller denominations of jade.

**Resources 3**: Resources 3 is the standard of living for your typical Dynast
out and about in the world, and for the wealthier patrician families. Goods in
this category are true luxuries: a closet of silk garments in the latest style,
a well-bred exotic pet like an ox-dragon or a thieving lizard, a large yacht,
the pay of the crew of that yacht in total for a couple months, or a sprawling
townhouse in some lovely hills. This kind of luxury is standard for the Dynasty,
desireable for the patriciate, and beyond the wildest dreams of the peasantry.
Most transactions at this level will be large denominations of cash or, more
typically, the regular denominations of jade.

**Resources 4**: Resources 4 is the category of the finer things in life. This
category of goods are the ritzy luxuries that well-respected Dynasts can afford
to show off; for most Dynasts, these are indulgences that require some kind of
assistance, either from your House or a loan from your local Ragara. This is
the category of family palaces, a closet of silk and jewels the size of a small
home, a staff of the finest employees (not slaves), the respected former prince
of a barbarian kingdom to serve as your personal secretary, the yearly wages of
a cadre of mercenary bodyguards with a fearsome reputation, and so forth. Deals
at this level are always in jade, and many are ledger transactions -- so huge
that no real money changes hands because of inconvenient it would be to
transport.

**Resources 5** Resources 5 is the level of queens and matriarchs. The goods
valued at Resources 5 are rarely physical -- if they are, they " theEye of Gol
Maa, the ancient fist-sized ruby set in the crown of the Queen of Than'ma
before she was deposed," that sort of thing. Most Resources 5 goods are
abstract: raising a palace, building a city, decking yourself out in
thread-of-jade and egg-sized jewels to rival the Empress, etc.
