---
layout: default
title: The Triptych of the Empress As a Young Woman
permalink: /esotery/triptych/
parent: Esotery
nav_order: 2
has_children: true
---

# The Triptych of the Empress As a Young Woman

_The Triptych of the Empress As a Young Woman_ is a painting hailing from the
early days of the Realm, making it nearly 700 years old.

The Triptych remained in obscurity for centuries, and even now is unknown to the
world at large. Our heroes discovered the existence of the Triptych from the
notes of Mnemon Temperance, a slain minister and art enthusiast.

## Temperance's Words on the Triptych

Temperance's study described the Triptych as "powerful" -- her research
concluded that it was "capable of causing great change," although the nature of
the change is unclear. The assassin Ragara Mango attempted to kill her to steal
her research, which indicates that House Ragara likewise believes that the
Triptych is of interest.

## The Triptych Itself

The Triptych was originally painted by Rawar of Arjuf, a famous husband of the
Empress from the early centuries of the Realm. It has three panels which depict
the Empress in her youth.

The central panel is a portrait of the Empress on the Five Dragon Throne. She is
staring intently at the viewer and bedecked with Imperial finery. Temperance's
notes referred to this as the "portrait" panel.

The left panel depicts the Empress as conqueror. She is wearing armor and
wielding a sword. The background is the city of Arjuf as it burns, clearly a
memory of the War of the Scarlet Deluge. It is likely the moment when the
Empress agreed with Rawar of Arjuf to the precise terms of Arjuf's admission to
the Realm. Temperance's notes refer to this as the "soldier" panel.

The right panel depicts the Empress as lawgiver. She is clad in the finest
garments and addresses the Assembly. In the background, many colorful figures
bow down to her and pay homage. She has an unfurled scroll as she announces
something of importance. This scene is likely a depiction of the founding of the
Deliberative in RY 103. Temperance's notes refer to this as the "Deliberative"
panel.

## History of the Triptych

The Triptych was hung in the Imperial Palace for many centuries. It was stolen
from the Imperial Palace during the Shattered Gongs Rebellion, when the
now-disbanded House Chanos sacked the Imperial Palace. It was brought back to
the city of Chanos.

At some point between the sack of the Shattered Gongs Rebellion and the present
day, the Triptych was broken into pieces. The portrait panel was left on display
by House Sesus in the House of Burning Wind, the significance of it seemingly
forgotten.

Mnemon Temperance concluded that the fracturing of the painting was likely to
have taken place in the 5th century, as part of transporting the painting back
to Chanos during the Shattered Gongs Rebellion. It is unclear what else may have
contributed to the fracture of the Triptych.
