---
layout: default
title: The Magistracy
permalink: /the-realm/law-and-order/magistracy/
parent: Law and Order
grand_parent: The Realm
nav_order: 2
---

# The Magistracy

_Magistrates_ are a special class of official who hold Imperial fiat to
investigate and enforce laws upon the ministries, the judges, and even the
Chosen. They are enforcers of the Empress' will, meting out justice to the
wicked and destroying the corrupt and the greedy.

Magistrates are beloved by the common folk, and generally despised by the
Dynasty for meddling where they are not wanted. The Magistrates are appointed
directly by the Empress herself, and their fiat is one of the broadest and
oldest in the Realm.

Primarily, Magistrates focus on investigating impropriety among the highest
circles of society. Their remit is to track down, prove, and wreak justice upon
corrupt officials and those who abuse their fiat; to protect the citizenry from
the predations of the powerful; and to ensure law and order prevails even on
those whose duty is to enforce it.

## History of the Magistracy

The Magistrates emerged early in the Realm's history, when the Empress needed
couriers and trusted officials to carry her word, with whom she knew that it
would not be corrupted. As her ministries grew, the Empress repurposed her
Magistrates into a sort of internal-affairs division, policing the government
itself to keep it free from corruption.

## Magisterial Authority

Magistrates are tasked with not only enforcing the law, but also seeing that
those who enforce the law are doing so correctly. They patrol the whole Isle,
checking in on judges, prefects, governors, and the blood-rite princes to ensure
that the Empress' will is carried out exactly as she wills it.

Magistrates are not subject to any authority but the Empress. They cannot be
arrested except by another magistrate, and only the Empress has the authority to
order their death. They are above all law but treason, and follow only the code
that the Empress requires of them.

In the execution of their duties, Magistrates can commander any property, demand
cooperation from any person, and pass judgement against any person shy of the
Matriarchs themselves. Every word that they speak is a representation of the
Empress, and every action represents the whole Realm.

### Limitations on Magisterial Authority

Magistrates are forbidden from owning any property. Although they are usually
well-equipped, their clothes, armor, and weapons are direct property of the
Empress, surrendered to her when they took their oaths. Magistrates cannot own
or use currency, and cannot hold land or permanent residence.

Magistrates cannot pass judgement upon the Empress' Table, nor upon anyone in
the Empress household. Magistrates must submit to regular reviews by the
Empress and the other Magistrates, and the punishment for corruption is
exection by the Empress' own hand. Magistrates submit to a full review every
five years in the Imperial City, and a partial review whenever the Empress
demands.

Only the Empress may appoint a Magistrate.

## Appointment

The Empress appoints Magistrates from those she views as most trustworthy and
most likely to work for her and her alone. She occasionally appoints truly
heroic Dynasts, such as the famous Ragara Benoru or Mnemon Korvu, but such
appointments are far from the norm.

Instead, the Empress is known to choose the heretical, the ostracized, the
rebellious, and the lightly criminal as her voice. She swoops in to save such
figures from death or imprisonment, offering them a new life of freedom and
vengeance on those who did them wrong, as long as they maintain absolute,
unquestioning loyalty to her personally.

The best candidates for the Magistracy are those who have ended up at the
outskirts of society for their pursuit of justice. The Empress tends her
Magistrates carefully, selecting for detachment, sense of justice, and absolute
loyalty. Magistrates are above and outside the politics of the Dynasty, a
detached eye keeping watch on all affairs to ensure the smooth running of the
Realm.

## Magisterial Support

Each individual Magistrate is a powerful Dragon-Blooded cultivated by the
Empress, and so has many duties and tasks they must see to. To assist them and
to keep an eye on them, the Magistrates are always accompanied by a flock of
support staff.

### Scribes

Foremost among the support staff is the _scribe_, who records all judgements and
official uses of power by the Magistrate and sends regular reports to the
Empress. Scribes are also advocates for their Magistrate during reviews, against
a critic appointed by the Empress to argue against the Magistrate's judgements.

### Archons

_Archons_ are the mortal support staff of the Magistrate, brought along for
their specific skill in an area of specialty. For example, a Magistrate with a
brilliant deductive mind but poor swordsmanship might retain a skilled duelist
as an archon bodyguard.

The Magistrate may conscript any mortal to service, as long as that mortal is
not a member of a Great House or in the employ of a Great House or another
Chosen. Archons follow the same regulations as the Magistrates, but cannot
requisition under magisterial authority.

Archons are loyal to their Magistrate to the death -- literally. When an active
Magistrate dies, all of her archons are executed. This ensures their
unquestioning commitment to the bodily safety of their Magistrate.

## Heroic Figures

Peasants _adore_ Magistrates, like they adore the Empress. To a peasant, the
Empress is always a figure of benevolent authority, who swoops in to save them
from the predations of their vile local lords. Never is this clearer to the
peasantry than when a Magistrate arrives to pass judgement upon the prefect who
burned down the village in retaliation for getting mud on her skirt.

Peasant literature is full to bursting with tales of heroic magistrates solving
mysteries, or engaging in daring duels, or falling in love with their archons,
or sneaking into manses to gather evidence on corrupt ministers. The law
requires that a peasant surrender anything and everything to a Magistrate when
requested -- but Magistrates often find they do not need to request, because the
locals are already competing for the honor of hosting a Magistrate and the
lifetime of stories they will be able to tell about it.

## Reputation

God, Magistrates are the **worst**, aren't they? They're always meddling around,
sticking their noses into affairs where they don't belong. I've been running a
very safe and productive scheme here, gathering extra taxes from the rice farms
to pay off the bandits to harass the Nellens wagons so my sister can kick out
that awful Nellens Iron Wing from her position in the ministries. I haven't
hurt anyone! Those peasants don't use money for anything anyway, they're not
missing it.

Then in comes this **Magistrate**, this _fucking_ interloper, who starts asking
all sorts of hard questions. "Why don't these sheets balance," she says, "why
haven't these forms been filed." Normally I'd offer jade and favors, but no, she
wasn't interested. And then, _wham_! Next thing I know I've been dragged out of
my bed into the square in the middle of the night, and the _peasants_ are there
to laugh at me! It was the most embarassing moment of my life.

Mother was very upset. She forced me to return home, leave my career behind and
take shelter behind these walls like a dog. Unbelievable. I'll get my vengeance
on that Magistrate, mark my word!
