---
layout: default
title: The Dragon-Blooded
permalink: /the-realm/dragon-blooded/
parent: The Realm
nav_order: 2
has_children: true
---

# The Dragon-Blooded

The Dragon-Blooded are the inheritors of elemental greatness. Unlike the Chosen
of the minor gods that sometimes appear, the Dragon-Blooded are able to pass
their greatness to their children.

## The Dragon's Blood

The Dragon's Blood is what gives the Dragon-Blooded their name and their power.
This sacred blood is inherited directly from the elemental dragons of Creation,
and marks the Princes of the Earth as special.

The Dragon's Blood can be passed from parent to child. This so-called
"progenitive Essence" waxes and wanes during the cycle of years, so a child is
never guaranteed to Exalt, even with the strongest parents.

## Awaiting Exaltation

The children of the Dynasty spend their whole life, from the moment they are
able to understand, awaiting the moment that they are Chosen by the dragons.

There are infinite rumors and shortcuts purported to gain the dragons' favor;
you probably knew someone growing up who was seriously injured or even killed
trying to earn their Second Breath.

The truth is as the monks say: No one can force the dragons' hands. If you are
meant to be Chosen, then you will be; no heroism will inspire the dragons to
Choose you if they do not desire, and if they desire, then no life of luxury
and idleness will spare you glory.

## The Moment of Exaltation

The dragons have a flare for the dramatic. Your Second Breath usually comes
during a moment of emotional energy: a damning failure, a crowning success, or
the struggle to survive.

When you were Chosen, you erupted into a column of elemental power and probably
caused massive property damage. You may even have hurt someone you love before
you were able to get your anima under control. Deaths from an Exaltation are
very unlikely (usually people run when a child stars causing earthquakes), but
injury and property damage are very very common.
