---
layout: default
title: The Realm
permalink: /the-realm/
nav_order: 1
has_children: true
---

# The Realm

The Realm is the mightiest empire in all Creation, an unrivaled beacon of power
and glory. Ruled in just configuration by the mighty Dragon-Blooded of its Great
Houses in fealty to the Empress, no other nation can rival the stability and
power of the Realm.

The Realm is based primarily on two major powers: the Roman Empire and Imperial
China.

## Social Class

The Empress is the supreme authority of the Realm, and mother to all within its
borders. Her power is uncontestable and absolute; every time a rebellion has
been raised against her, it has been swiftly crushed and destroyed.

Below the Empress are the _Dynasty_, the ten Great Houses that she has elevated
to the highest possible status. The Dynasty is ruled by the Dragon-Blooded, who
have been Chosen by the dragons; their un-Exalted family are just below them on
the hierarchy. Also included in the Dynasty are _cadet Houses_, royal families
from the satrapies that have sworn fealty to one of the Great Houses, and
_outcastes_ who have received the blessing of the dragons but have not yet
joined a Great House.

Below the Dynasty is the _patriciate_, the Realm's administrative class. These
are the vital functionaries of the Realm who handle the day-to-day work of
running an empire. When a Prince of the Earth sets a course on her ship, it is
her patrician officers who direct the crew. When a Prince of the Earth makes a
decision for her ministry, her patrician executors see that it is carried out.

Near the bottom of the totem pole are the _peasantry_, who form the vast bulk of
the Realm's population. Peasants make a living as workers, farmers, tradesfolk,
or other such professions. The peasantry are citizens and thus provided the
protection of law and order, though many never have need of such protections.

Slaves are the lowest level of society. The Realm forbids the practice of
hereditary slavery; the child of a slave is always a citizen. Slaves are usually
foreigners or prisoners of war pressed into service. Many crimes are also
punishable by slavery. Individuals cannot own slaves; slaves are property of
society as a whole. The exception are Dynastic families, which are allowed to
own household slaves exclusively.

Outside of society are the _dispossessed_, the scum of Creation. The
dispossessed have no rights and are not recognized as human. They are forbidden
from owning personal property and have no protections under the law.
Dispossession is the severest punishment the Realm has to hand, reserved only
for escaped dissidents, tax evaders, and bandits. Enslaving the dipossessed is
strictly forbidden by law, for doing so elevates them back to humanity.

## The Government

The Empress is the supreme authority of the Realm and her word is law.

The Deliberative is the Realm's legislature. The Deliberative is divided into
two chambers: the Lesser and the Greater. The senators of the Greater Chamber
are appointed by the Empress to represent the interests of the Great Houses. The
Lesser Chamber consists of delegates elected by the Greater Chamber, and
serves to approve the laws passed by the Upper Chamber before sending them to
the Empress.

The Imperial Ministries are tasked with the enforcement and execution of
Imperial will. Hundreds of ministries and thousands of ministers see to the
execution of the law and, most importantly, collecting tax revenue.

The Magistracy are a special force of officers selected by the Empress herself
for their incorruptible honor and dutiful execution of the law. Imperial
Magistrates are tasked with rooting out corruption and solving unsolvable crimes
that the local constabulary have given up on.

## Dominions and Prefectures

The Blessed Isle is divided into hundreds of prefectures, administrative
territories drawn on the land for collecting tax and enforcing the law. Every
prefecture is overseen by a _prefect_, appointed by the Deliberative and tasked
with administering their area and collecting taxes.

Arjuf Dominion, Lord's Crossing Dominion, and Numinous Rolling Wave Dominion are
three large and important provinces. Since they were kingdoms recognized by the
Empress before she absorbed them, she titled them _dominions_ instead of
prefectures. The difference is less than 0.

## Satrapies

The final element that makes up the Realm are the _satrapies_, subjugated
colonial holdings from across the sea. These lesser nations and barbarian lands
have been subjugated and sworn fealty to the Realm. They pay taxes and tribute
in the form of resources and people, and in exchange the Realm provides
protection and culture.

Some satrapies, like the southern port city of Chiaroscuro, are so large and
successful that they are granted significant autonomy. Chiaroscuro itself is
nearly as large as the Imperial City. Most satrapies, however, are poor and
struggling, and their conquest by the Realm is a mercy.
