---
layout: default
title: The Blessed Isle
permalink: /blessed-isle/
nav_order: 2
has_children: true
---

# The Blessed Isle

The Blessed Isle is the seat of civilization and the beating heart in the
dragon's chest. The gigantic Omphalos, the Imperial Mountain, towers at its
center, surrounded in all eight directions by plentiful and varied terrain:
soaring mountains, limestone karsts, scorching deserts, verdant river valleys,
and more. The Isle is supernaturally blessed; it was once home to the gods of
Heaven before Heaven was, and has served as the heart of the world since time
immemorial.

## Geography

The Blessed Isle is surrounded on all eight sides by the sapphire Inland Sea,
which makes it an isle proper, although it is an island hundreds of times larger
than any other in Creation. The central feature of the Isle is the Imperial
Mountain, which towers miles and miles into the sky, its long shadow covering
country-sized swathes of land. The smaller mountains -- many still taller than
any others in Creation, although dwarfed by the Omphalos -- surround the
Imperial Mountain, then spread into the Imperial Range which makes the center of
the Isle.

Beyond the Imperial Range, the Blessed Isle is much like Creation in
miniature. To the east, the Isle is verdant and lush. Here, the land is full of
staggering forests, green river valleys, jungles of towering fungi, and
sprawling fields of blossoms. In the south, the Isle is hotter and drier, home
to rolling plains and patches of desert. In the west, the Isle is wet, varying
from tropical to jungle to long, tall river gorges. Lastly, on the northern
shores, the Isle is fresh and sweet-smelling, mild summers giving way to chilly
winters and stormy autumns.

## Peoples

The Isle has been home to humans for as long as humans have existed; most modern
scholars agree that humanity originated on the Isle. Although the WÃ n are today
the dominant ethnic group, the Isle is home to dozens of distinct ethnic groups.
Scholars in the Realm have categorized roughly fifty-eight groups.

The people of the Isle are as diverse as its land, but they have been unified
in the Realm for more than five centuries. Realm society permeates the whole
Isle, and though many people still practice their native traditions, the large
cities are all distinctly Realm, a blend of groups and histories striving
together in harmonious accord under the wise leadership of the Dragon-Blooded.

## That Which Came Before

The Blessed Isle is an ancient place, and has played home to many great and
magical kingdoms. Before the mighty Realm there was the Shogunate; before that,
the Realm Before, ruled by the gold and silver Anathema demon-kings; and before
that, kingdoms of gods and inhuman things. All these civilizations have left
relics. The Blessed Isle is dotted with remnants and strange things.

Nearly every major city is built around remnants, and even most small towns have
some relic of note. Ancient palaces radiate health and fertility to nearby
fields; a dome of crystal encloses a Wood demesne high in the mountains, frozen
on the outside and tropical inside; a river flows through the pools and water
wheels of an ancient gorge, powering some unknown thing inside the cliffs;
towering remnants emerge from the Plains of Rusted Iron, which on full moons hum
and ring with energy.

The Realm is an ancient place, suffused with power. It is good that the Dragons
rule, for who else could handle such a burden?
