---
layout: default
title: The Silken Art of Conversation
permalink: /systems/social-influence/
parent: Systems
nav_order: 2
has_children: true
---

# The Silken Art of Conversation

In the hands of a Prince of the Earth, words can be just as dangerous as a sword
or an army. With the proper application of influence, a Prince can shift the
course of an entire nation from war to peace or from poverty to dexterity.

In _Exalted_, social influence and interpersonal communication is as important,
if not moreso, as the application of violence. This is modeled in the social
influence system, outlined here.

This little words-game is probably my single favorite system in _Exalted_. I in
fact like it so much that I intend to port it in some capacity to every game I
play in almost any system, that's how much I like it.

## The Basic Flow

If you _want to make someone believe something_, you'll need more than just a
convincing argument -- you're going to need evidence, and you're going to need
to work it into their existing beliefs. You'll have to navigate their mind and
convince them based on things they already accept.

If you want to _convince someone to do something_, you're going to need to use
some kind of leverage. You'll need to convince them that doing something aligns
to their existing beliefs, or offer them something tangible.

That is, in _Exalted_, to get someone to do respond the way you want, you'll
have to convince them based on their existing beliefs and offer them a reason to
act -- just like in real life!

## Where Does Influence Come From?

So, here's the thing: Social influence is _not_ mind control. Even using magic
doesn't make it mind control. If you use a Charm that adds to your roll, you
very explicitly ARE NOT extending tendrils of magic into their mind to get them
to believe what you want -- you are making _yourself_ more convincing.

If you use the social influence system to convince someone, it all ultimately
emerges from them. It is IMPOSSIBLE to convince someone to do something that
goes against their nature -- the social system simply does not work that way.

If an NPC convinces your character to assassinate her brother, it's because you,
as a player, have made a character that could be convinced to do that.

If an NPC convinces you to abandon your duty in pursuit of your personal agenda,
it is because you had beliefs that would drive you to do so.

In short: You do it to yourself.
