---
layout: default
title: Satrapial Garrisons and House Irregulars
permalink: /the-realm/military/satrapial-garrisons-and-house-irregulars/
parent: Military Organization of the Realm
grand_parent: The Realm
nav_order: 3
---

# Satrapial Garrisons and House Irregulars

Every House retains the ability to raise military forces in the form of their
_irregulars_, soldiers employed privately by the House to serve their ends. One
of the primary duties of the House irregulars is to serve as _satrapial_
_garrisons_, providing security services to overseas holdings.

## Satrapial Garrisons

Satrapies need defending, and the burden of defending them comes down to the
House which administers them. Every garrison is headed by a _commander_, who is
tasked with supporting the satrap and ensuring the safety of the holding.

### Commander

The garrison commander is appointed by the Deliberative, not by the governing
House. Appointments by the Deliberative are subject to veto by the Empress,
requiring a snap replacement. The Empress has made it known that she will veto
any garrison commander appointment from the same House as the satrap, or any
individual whose goals align too closely to those of the satrap. The goal of the
garrison commander is security, not advancing the interests of the governing
House.

### Forces

The satrapial garrison is composed of a combination of groups. The high officers
are usually selected from the Realm, consisting of the appointed garrison
commander, her favored subordinates, and a couple chosen by the governing House
to curtail the authority of the commander.

The battle forces are usually a combination of the House irregulars and levied
locals. The forces typically serve as both national guard and an internal
police; the Empress prefers her own people for these tasks, given how
untrustworthy many foreigners are. Police functions are usually limited to
crimes involving the Realm and her people.

Satrapial garrisons also provide security for important visiting Realm citizens.

### Equipment and Funding

The satrapial garrison is funded by the House as part of the burden of running
the satrapy. Many Houses gladly fund their garrisons, since keeping the satrapy
is the only way they can make money from it. In a careful balance between
investment and return, the quality and quantity of funding vary wildly.
Satrapies prone to violence or uprisings will find their garrisons well-equipped
and well-funded; those which offer little trouble, such as the peaceful Pha or
the subservient An-Teng, find garrisons which are more threadbare, since they
see to little action.

Most Houses choose to equip their garrisons with the simple and effective
classics: a spear, a shield, and light armor.

## House Irregulars

**House irregulars** are the private military forces of each of the Great
Houses. Unlike the legions, no portion of the irregulars is paid for by the
Empress' funds -- Houses fund them entirely on their own. The irregulars usually
serve as security forces, garrison soldiers, and specialized law enforcement
personnel. Many irregulars are bodyguards for important House figures. A few,
such as the former Ghostcutter Corps of the fallen House Iselsi, served niches
that the House was concerned with but which do not meet the attention of Her
Radiance herself.

### House Cathak Irregulars

House Cathak retains many small corps of bodyguards, trained in small arms. The
bodyguard forces usually wield shortspears instead of full-sized spears, for
better maneuverability in cramped quarters. House Cathak also has several units
of berserkers; these fighters wield two-handed swords and descend into a
battle-rage. Although powerful, the berserkers are often dangerous to their own
side, making effective use of them difficult.

### House Cynis Irregulars

House Cynis' irregulars largely specialize in the crossbow, an ancient weapon of
the WÃ n native to Pangu. In closer combat, they usually wield short-sword and
knife, foregoing shields. Cynis irregulars are infamous for their poor
discipline and luxurious lifestyles, as are all Cynis. In reality, although
their discipline leaves much to be desired, individual Cynis bodyguards are just
as professional and dangerous as any other. Lastly, Cynis also has several corps
of slave-tenders, who use force out in the world to secure and transport slaves.
Their slave-tenders are usually equipped with the best equipment -- slaves are
the family's lifeblood, and an important asset requires extra protection.

### House Ledaal Irregulars

House Ledaal's irregular forces are very disciplined for not being legions; the
military tradition of House Jurul survived in House Ledaal mostly in the form of
their irregulars. Ledaal's irregulars are called _pejuang_, and descend from the
martial traditions of Arjuf. They are usually equipped with _khanda_, the gilt
straight swords associated with Arjuf. A few more veteran pejuang use the
_pata_ or gauntlet-sword and wear shiny armor with distinctive pauldrons.
Lastly, the Serpent Guard are Ledaal's specialized force for guarding their
ancient dig sites and most dangerous gear. The Serpent Guard wear black cloth
uniforms and wield large swords with sawtoothed edges.

### House Mnemon Irregulars

House Mnemon uses many of their irregulars to guard their build sites and other
important places. These soldiers mostly wield spears and are lightly armored.
They usually have a purple tassel on their spears and a flower pattern on their
chestpiece. In the satrapies, Mnemon's forces train in straight swords and
knives; many of Mnemon's traditions can be traced back to the Arjufi traditions
of her father's people. One of House Mnemon's first tasks after acquiring new
territory is to build walls and put artillery upon them, to make use of the
House's famous siege engineers in defending the city.

### House Nellens Irregulars

House Nellens has very few satrapies, so a majority of its irregular forces are
concentrated on the Isle as police forces and bodyguards. House Nellens inherits
a grand martial tradition from the former Harmonious Mountain State centered in
Juche. A lot of Nellens' forces are the Pikemen, tracing their martial skill all
the way back to the techniques of the Legendary Masters. In a similar vein,
Nellens has a number of mortal martial artists specializing in unarmed combat.
Though these martial artists would be of dubious use against an army, Nellens
has no armies to contend with -- and they make excellent bodyguards and security
staff.

### House Peleps Irregulars

House Peleps' normal military might is focused on the Navy, leaving it quite
hurting for land presence. Most of Peleps' irregulars are straightforward
spear troops, mostly used for garrisoning Peleps' satrapies.  The more
interesting are Peleps' marines, armed with ringed broadswords and medium armor.
They specialize in boarding actions, with the goal of capturing the enemy leader
and subduing the crew. Marines also train in the basics of operating a ship's
armaments while the crew focuses on rowing.

### House Ragara Irregulars

House Ragara's irregulars are famously lax in their discipline. The wealthy
House prefers spectacle over substance. They wear heavy bejeweled armor and
focus on fancy sword techniques. Most of Ragara's irregulars are hired on a
contract basis, giving rise to their popular name, the _hireswords_. Aside from
their fancy hireswords, Ragara also invests in actual effective forces. These
mysterious Ragara elites wear yellow sashes and wield halberds. It is not
entirely clear where Ragara trains them -- many are foreign tributes -- but they
are a common enough sight at Ragara's most important investments.

### House Sesus Irregulars

House Sesus has always invested in ranged specialists, tracing back to Sesus'
own famed skill with the bow and arrow. The Sesus irregulars are thus often
archers, who specialize in holding the walled cities while the Sesus legions
focus on the close engagements. House Sesus also maintains an extensive (and
thoroughly mysterious) network of informants, spies, and counterinsurgent
specialists, who focus on infiltration and subversion of enemy forces.

### House Tepet Irregulars

House Tepet's irregulars are mostly _ashigaru_, peasants enlisted to serve the
House for skill with spears. Tepet is special in that it allows peasants the
same opportunity as legionaries -- to buy gear from the House in advance of
wages paid over the next several years. A few Tepet irregulars come from the
backcountry of Lord's Crossing and Tepet's holdings in the mountains; many of
these peasants study the chakram and use it as a primary ranged weapon. Lastly,
Tepet maintains the Blue Stars, an elite unit of halberdiers distinguishable by
the blue seven-pointed stars they wear on their uniforms. The Blue Stars are
used as bodyguards for Tepet's most valuable non-military scions.

### House V'neef Irregulars

House V'neef is exceptionally young, and has not yet had the opportunity to
develop proper irregulars. Their satrapies are defended mostly by levied locals,
bribed into service with a signing bonus of luxury goods from V'neef's markets.
Most of these train in whatever their local martial tradition demands -- usually
swords, bows, or spears, depending on the locale. House V'neef also maintains a
Medicine Corps, a group of specialists in healing and harm; these soldiers study
to serve as bodyguard-butlers, mastering both the art of healing (to maintain
the health of their ward) and the art of poison, using knives or needles.
