---
layout: default
title: The Imperial Legions
permalink: /the-realm/military/imperial-legions/
parent: Military Organization of the Realm
grand_parent: The Realm
nav_order: 1
---

# The Imperial Legions

The Imperial Legions are the branch of the Realm military under the Empress'
direct authority, without any delegation to the Houses. Although she, naturally,
does not actively control every military action, the generals of her forces
answer to her and serve at her pleasure.

## Structure of the Imperial Legion

The Imperial Legion is composed of: a primary fighting force of legionaries; a
small corps of officers; several units of supplemental forces; a train of
support staff; and a large number of attached servitors.

## The Legionaries

The primary fighting force nominally numbers 5,120 soldiers, although in
reality, up to 20% of the Legion's force might be unavailable at any given time,
including soldiers in recovery, soldiers on leave, or soldiers on special duty.

The overall commander of a legion is known as the _general_ or _strategos_.

### The Dragon

The _dragon_ consists of 640 soldiers, and eight dragons compose the legion,
numbered, expectedly, First to Eighth. The soldeirs in a dragon share a basic
function in war.

The First, Second, Third, Fourth, Fifth, and Sixth Dragons are usually composed
of basic infantry. These are your run-of-the-mill legionaries; the First Dragon
is the most elite among them.

The Seventh Dragon is composed of quick-riding cavalry. Usually, the Seventh
Dragon is mounted on horses, although other animals may be used when they are
better suited to the local environment.

The Eighth Dragon is composed of artillerists, combat engineers and scouts.

The commander of a dragon is called the _dragonlord_ and resides in the
officer's camp.

### The Talon

A _talon_ consists of 80 soldiers, and eight talons compose each dragon.

Infantry talons usually fight in formation, 10 columns and 8 rows, each row
representing a scale of infantry. Talons of the Seventh and Eighth Dragons
operate on their own geometries befitting their roles.

The commander of a talon is called a _talonlord_, and resides with their
command, but closest to the officer's camp.

### The Scale

A _scale_ is a unit of 10 soldiers. Eight scales comprise a talon; in an
infantry talon, the scales each make up the rows of the formation.

Within the infantry talons, the scales are numbered 1 to 8, with the 1st scale
being the most prestigious. In battle, the 8th talon marches at the front of the
formation, closest to the enemy; the 8th scale is composed of the greenest and
most disposable, while the 1st scale, at the back, is the most veteran.
Surviving engagements leads to promotions within the talon.

The commander of a scale is called the _scalelord_, and, like the corporal of a
fang, is primarily an authority in camp, not on the battlefield.

### The Fang

The _fang_ is an organizational unit of 5 men, and for infantry, has very little
strategic use. Instead, for infantry, the fang is simply a way of demarcating
which soldiers share tents. Unsurprisingly, two fangs make up a scale.

Infantry fangs are almost useless as a field unit, but are a helpful way to
organize camp tents. Members of the same fang bunk together in the same tents,
and the most senior, the _corporal_, is responsible for camp functions, although
she commands no authority on the battlefield.

In the Eighth Dragon, the fang is often a more tactical unit, because several
pieces of artillery are operated by five-man teams, or a unit of 5 men can
operate as a scouting party. The corporal of an Eighth Dragon fang might
actually be able to give orders on the battlefield.

## Legionary Equipment

Legionaries either provide their own equipment or purchase equipment from the
Legion with an advance on future salary; soldiers with debt to the Legion killed
honorably in the line of duty have their remaining debt discharged.

### Armor

The unifying under-armor of the legions is a red tunic and white or tan
trousers, worn over long-sleeved and long-legged undergarments. The basic layers
provide padding which helps prevent irritation and a unified red color to the
Realm's forces.

Infantry are usually kitted with a lamellar plate for the chest, a pair of
thigh-guards, and a helmet. The armor is made from laquered leather or, for
heavier or wealthier infantry, from steel scales. The helmet is adorned with a
simple red plume or not adorned at all.

Cavalry wear body armor and have more elaborate helmets. Specialists of the
Eighth Dragon wear lighter armor and hats instead of helmets.

### Weaponry

Standard accoutrement for an infantry soldier includes: a crossbow; a spear; a
short sword; a shield; and a knife. The focus of infantry combat is on the
spear, which allows for formation fighting. The crossbow is used for opening
volleys while closing on the enemy, and the sword can be used once spear combat
becomes untenable.

The cavalry of the Seventh Dragon are primarily mounted archers, using their
high maneuverability and ranged power. They are also equipped with polearms or
large swords for melee engagement.

The Eighth Dragon are generally equipped with a crossbow, a sword, and a shield
at hand. Legionaries of the Eighth Dragon are drilled in infantry sword
training, but their primary function is artillery and scouting -- both being
occupations where, if you are clashing swords with someone, something has gone
horribly wrong. Scouts are lightly armored and forego the use of heavy shields.

## Officer Corps

The senior officers of the legion operate as a semi-detached officer corps, in
that they do not occupy a position within the legion proper, but rather attached
to it as an executive command structure.

The officer corps of the Imperial Legions are composed in large part of
outcastes and foreign Chosen who have taken the coin and accepted a commission.
As a result, the officer corps is often filled with a varying array of
experiences and backgrounds that offers flexibility and insight.

### General

The supreme authority of the legion is the _general_, who is occasionally
called upon to serve as military governor in the interim while regional
governments are established. The general makes the highest levels of decisions
and directs the legion's broad engagements. In battle, the general usually
delegates authority to the individual dragonlords, unless the whole legion is
engaged, in which case she posts a camp at the rear of the battlefield and
directs the legion to operate as a whole.

No general of the Imperial Legions has ever been mortal.

### Dragonlord

The _dragonlord_ is the commander of an individual dragon, tasked with
supervising their units and commanding the dragons in battle. Generals often
send dragons to act independently, especially when a distributed presence is
required, so dragonlords usually have experience operating solo. When the legion
is brought to bear, the dragonlords spend time both at the general's camp to
assist in planning and on the battlefield leading troops.

The dragonlord of the First Dragon is the most senior dragonlord in the legion.
Infantry dragonlords have a reputation as gruff and straightforward. The
dragonlord of the Seventh Dragon commands the cavalry units, and they have a
reputation as being overworked and underappreciated. Lastly, the dragonlord of
the Eighth Dragon has a reputation as being eccentric and nonsequitur.

Only a handful of mortal officers have ever risen to the rank of dragonlord.

### Talonlord

The _talonlord_ is the commander of the eighty-man talon, with eight talonlords
answering to each of the dragonlords. The talonlord is part of their talon, a
senior officer in command of the 79 other soldiers in their unit. The talonlord
is the highest authority which regular soldiers are expected to deal with on
any kind of regular basis -- receiving orders and drilling with the talonlord's
command and participation.

Talonlord is the highest command to which mortals can usually aspire, and almost
all talonlords are mortal. Princes of the Earth may occasionally serve as
talonlord for very specialized talons of auxiliaries in large and well-respected
legions.

### Scalelord

The scalelord is the officer responsible for administering the 10-man scale,
which is both a row in formation and a tent group. The scalelord is responsible
for maintaining discipline at camp and ensuring that all nine of the soldiers
under her command remain disciplined and focused during combat. By convention,
the talonlord is also the scalelord of the first scale.

All scalelords are mortal.

### Fanglord

The fanglord has no battlefield authority and is regularly addressed by the
humble title of _corporal_. The fanglord is the most senior soldier in a given
tent, responsible for the discipline and upkeep of that single tent. Because of
its humility, all fanglords are mortal.

## The Officer's Camp

The officer's camp is a separate region of the military encampment set aside for
the officer's tents and staff. The general, dragonlords, and officers of the
train all make their residence within the officer's camp.

The general has a large and sprawling tent with several interior rooms, allowing
for parallel meetings and coordinating the legion's strategy. The central room
serves as both a meeting hall for the officers and the center of command for
the whole legion -- it usually has a large central table on which the general
and her officers make plans.

Individual dragonlords reside in the officer's camp in tents smaller than the
general's, arrayed to face the legions. In addition, the officers of the train
make their tents on the opposite side of the general's tent from the fighting
officers. Including the slaves and specialists, the officer's camp often feels
like a small elite village within the larger tent-city of the legion's camp.

The _officer's camp_ is often used metonymously to refer to the officer's corps
as a whole -- "we got new marching orders from the officer's camp," etc.

## Supplemental Forces

The regular fighting force of eight dragons is supplemented by an array of
secondary fighting forces called _supplemental forces_. Supplemental forces can
be divided into two broad categories: special forces and auxiliaries.

### Special Forces

The category of _special forces_ describes any unit of supplemental forces which
formally integrates with the legion structure and can include citizens among its
ranks. Although these forces exist outside of the eight dragons that make up the
formal fighting force of a legion, they are still part of the general's direct
command. Special forces generally serve very specialized roles.

There are no formal specifications for the type and number of special forces
which can be attached to a legion. The general is free to assemble and dismiss
special supplemental forces as she deems necessary. However, most legions
include at least some of the special forces listed here.

Many legions have a **sorcerer's attachment**, consisting of a sorcerer, her
bodyguards, and her servitors. Battle Sorcerers of the Imperial Legions are
often trained in a combination of devastating military magic and basic logistic
spells for communication and spying. The legion's sorcerer resides in the
officer's camp and her servitors among the train camp.

Many legions have a **chaplaincy** consisting of a dedicated monk, her
bodyguards, and her servitors. The chaplaincy serves not only to provide for the
legion's pastoral needs, but also as spirit-speakers and qualified specialists
in the supernatural. The chaplaincy also helps to track down and address heresy
and foreign influence among the legion's practice.

The **train guard** is commanded by the quartermaster, and is tasked primarily
with defending the legion's supply train. It is usually composed of respected
veteran soldiers who can be trusted with such an important task. The train guard
also act as a sort of police force for the train, ensuring that legion followers
do not cause trouble or disrupt the legion's function.

Many other categories of special forces can be found in various legions, as
befit that legion's specific needs.

### Auxiliaries

The category of _auxiliary_ describes any unit of supplemental forces made up of
local satrapial subjects or impressed peasantry.

Most auxiliaries are not professional soldiers, but rather are levied and
released as the legion requires. As a result, auxiliaries are often poorly
trained compared to the legionaries and rely on local tradition for their
skills. The most common unit of this kind of auxiliary is the **skirmisher**. A
unit of skirmishers is often simply a group of locals given spears and pointed
at the enemy. Their job is to provide bodies, do their best, and augment the
strength of the legion as required.

Many regions have strong traditions of useful skills such as archery, riding, or
swordsmanship. When able, auxiliaries may be raised as units with more purpose
than skirmisher units, such as archery units, backup cavalry, and so forth.

Mercenaries, when they are used, are also considered auxiliaries.

### Janissaries

_Janissaries_ are made up through the satrapial system of tribute, by which
prime satrapial subjects are taken from their homelands, converted to
Immaculacy if they are not already, and incorporated as professional soldiers
into the Realm's military. They are famed for their discipline and order.
Unlike other auxiliaries, the janissary units are paid regular salaries,
forbidden to marry or conduct trade, and are expected to show complete loyalty
to the legion and to the Empress.

Janissary units are deliberately deployed far away from their homelands, to
make sure that they have no loyalties other than to the Realm. They serve for
20 years and, should they survive their term, are returned to their homeland
with celebration and severance. A satrapy which regularly tributes janissary
forces grows more cosmopolitan as its wayward children return home with new
foreign ideas. Such a satrapy also grows more respected, as the janissary corps
of its subjects gain fame and respect among the legions.

Many satrapies select their eventual janissary tribute as children and send them
to be raised in special martial orders. Janissaries embody their culture's
traditions in far corners of the world that would otherwise never see them.

Famous janissary corps include Medoan heavy cavalry, Tu'uri desert warriors with
their eerie face paint, Delzahn lancers, Jiaran sword-dancers, Varangian
engineers, Baihu amphibious assault marines, Zebremani battle alchemists,
D'deshi poison-swallowers, fearless leiomano wielders from Utahi, Pneuman
mandala soldiers, and dozens of other famed peoples with strange -- and
useful -- local warrior traditions.

## The Train

The _Thousand Correct Actions of the Upright Soldier_ says,

> While spears may win battles, it is carts that win wars.

A legion marches on its stomach. It marches on boots. It wages war with spears
and sleeps on bedrolls. Each of those things, and many more, must be acquired
from somewhere and hauled with the legion. Every sip of stew, every scrap of
tent cloth, and every wheel on every cart comes from somewhere.

The _train_ is the most important part of the legion. It is the long line of
baggage and supplies that carries the legion's food, water, ammunition, and
other gear. It is populated by animals, drovers, and craftsmen of all kinds:
wainwrights and wheelwrights to keep the carts in good repair, smiths to fix the
weapons, farriers for the horses, bowyers and fletchers for ammunition, and
more.

### The Quartermaster and Her Staff

The _quartermaster_ is the second highest-ranking individual in the legion,
answering only and directly to the general. The quartermaster's primary
responsibility is running the legion's support staff and supply train. She is
equal parts commander and accountant.

The quartermaster is supported by her staff, a talon's worth of logistics
specialists that handle the tasks of arranging food, water, pay, and other
necessities for the legion. A major part of their duties is coordinating the
roughly seven talon's worth of personnel who make up the rest of the train.

The quartermaster is always Dragon-Blooded; no one else can be trusted with such
responsibility. Her staff are career legionaries and paid extra rate for their
work.

### Craftsmen

The legion employs many craftsman of many different crafts. Carpenters and
masons are valued for siegeworks and establishing camps. Wainwrights and
wheelwrights are necessary for keeping the legion's wagons in good repair.
Naturally, smiths are in high demand for repairs to weaponry and armor that
cannot be performed by the individual. Farriers are important for keeping the
horses, donkeys, and other draft animals on their feet.

Craftsmen require raw materials, so the legion also travels with sawyers and
skinners who can produce the raw materials required for the legion. Craftsmen
also need workers, who may or may not be slaves depending on the craftsman.

### Drivers

All the legion's carts need someone to drive them and tend to the animals. On
the march, drivers ensure that the working animals of the legion pull the carts
and drive the livestock. In sedentary periods, the drivers are tasked with
supervising and caring for the legion's livestock. Work animals make poor
eating, so the drivers focus mostly on keeping their animals alive and in good
working condition for the march ahead.

### Medical Staff

Legions keep a chief physician to command the recovery of the legion's valuable
members. The chief physician also keeps a staff of a handful of orderlies to
assist in keeping the legion up to snuff. In addition to providing medical
services, the medical staff also offer services as barbers and veterinarians.
Usually the chief physician resides in the officer's camp and the rest of the
orderlies in the train camp.

The effective number of medical staff fluctuates wildly based on the legion's
actual circumstances.

### Other Train Professions

Buglers, messengers, and bannermakers are a small but important part of the
train, who ensure that communication across the legion is maintained even in
times of battle. A small group of professional hunters work with talented
legionaries to find food for the legions as such things become necessary. Many
other specialized support staff can be found throughout the train, with the
leadership acquiring more as the situation demands.

## Servitors

Servitors make up a huge portion of the legion's actual count, although they,
like the train staff, do not count as combatants in an official tally. The
servitors are tasked with the day-to-day labor of camp and legion life, allowing
the soldiers to focus on their duties and drills. Servitors come mostly from two
primary sources: impressment of peasantry and the Imperial slaves.

### Conscription

Many of the legion's train and servants are conscripted troops from the local
population, either satrapial subjects or individuals willing to work for the
legion which have accumulated along the road. The legions only take unwilling
warriors in the most extreme cases -- soldiers have to want to fight for the
cause in order to fight most effectively.

Peasant levies are the most common form of enrollment from local populations.
Local nobles and minor nobility sometimes choose to serve in order to boost
their standing. Such individuals are suited for service in the officer's camp,
or as skilled workers among the train.

### Slaves

The legions are also staffed by "slaves in the Imperial Service," who are held
in bondage. Slaves in the Imperial Service are the Empress' direct property and
marked with her symbol on their shoulder; this symbol includes their year of
joining the legion. After twenty-five years of service, a slave in the Imperial
Service is manumitted, offered a small backpay, and becomes a Realm citizen.

Slaves in the Imperial Service have a number of protections which common slaves
lack. They are guaranteed bedrolls and meals, may only be punished by officers,
and are considered the Empress' property, making harassing or murdering them a
serious offense. Although they are still property and subject to the humiliation
and degradation of slavery, many slaves join the legions for the chance at
manumittance and the higher minimum standard they can expect.

### Distribution of Servitors

Every five-man fang has a servitor assigned to them, to handle the cooking and
low-level maintenance of the tent. These servitors are the responsibility of the
fang, and corporals and scalelords use them as a lesson on resource management.
Make your servant do all the work, and you lose both discipline and a perfectly
useful servant. Have your fang look after their own kit and maintain their own
standards, and the servant is more productive _and_ the fang is more
disciplined.

Each scalelord has a second servant in their tent, and each talonlord has a
separate tent with a staff of three servants. Officers in the officer's camp
have several servants each, and the general usually has a staff of twenty to
tend to her big tent.

The train has numerous servants that assist the craftsmen in their work.
Auxiliaries and special forces generally do not have their own servants.

## Final Accounting

A full legion on paper thus consists of:

- 5,120 soldiers arranged in eight dragons of eight talons of eight scales of
  ten men apiece;
- A train of roughly a dragon of extra craftsmen, support specialists, and
  other essentials;
- About half a dragon's worth of attached auxiliaries and specialists;
- A corps of officers to supervise the legion;
- Almost 2000 servants, about 25 each in each of the 64 talons, plus a couple
  hundred more distributed among the officer's camp and the train.

A full legion then numbers about 6000 soldiers, a handful of officers, and
a couple thousand servitors. This number does not account for the large band
of following sutlers, husbands, entertainers, laborers, prostitutes, and others
that form the civilian camp followers.

### Dragon-Blooded

A legion usually mans about a dozen or so Dragon-Blooded: the general, each of
the eight dragonlords, the quartermaster, the sorcerer, the monk, and one or
two among the special forces.
