---
layout: default
title: Military Organization of the Realm
permalink: /the-realm/military/
parent: The Realm
nav_order: 4
has_children: true
---

# Military Organization of the Realm

The Realm's military is composed of several major parts: the _Imperial Legions_,
the _House Legions_, the _satrapial garrisons_, and the _House irregulars_. On
the sea, House Peleps retains exclusive command of the _Imperial Navy_, and
House V'neef was awarded command of the _Merchant Fleet_, which is technically
a civilian operation.

The _Imperial Legions_ are the Empress' own fighting force, the thousands and
thousands of brave soldiers who lay their lives on the line for the defense and
expansion of the Realm. Many Legionaries are citizens of the Realm who have
chosen to take up arms; others are satrapial recruits rewarded with citizenship
at the end of their terms. Trained thoroughly with discipline and focus, the
Imperial Legions are among the most elite fighting forces in the world.

In addition to the Imperial Legions held by the Empress directly, each of House
Cathak, House Tepet, and House Sesus have _House Legions_, commanded by their
own generals on behalf of the Empress. These Legions are funded by the Great
Houses directly and tend to see less direct action. Each of the Houses holds at
least one Legion on the Isle to deal with domestic issues; the rest are staffed
abroad to advance the Realm's interests in the field.

The _satrapial garrisons_ are less rigorously trained than the Legions, and
primarily serve as police and defense forces for individual satrapies. Small and
dependent on their Great House for funding and training, the satrapial garrisons
range from well-trained to pathetic and from disciplined to thuggish, depending
on the House and satrapy.

The _House irregulars_ are all remaining forces fielded by the Great Houses,
such as the now-defunct Ghostcutter Corp once fielded by House Iselsi, the
mystical _yamabushi_ scouts of House Tepet, the special forces of House Sesus,
the bejeweled hireswords of House Ragara, and so on and so forth.

The _Imperial Navy_ consists of the fleet of triremes, treasure ships, and
galleons which the Realm uses for military operations on the water. Control of
the remit of House Peleps exclusively, although individuals of all Houses can
serve. The Imperial Navy is supported by Peleps' irregulars, including their
marines.

Lastly, the _Merchant Fleet_ is technically a civilian operation, but deserves
special mention. The primary involvement of the Merchant Fleet in military
operations is the vital duty of shipping resources, personnel, and tribute to
and from the Isle. Control of the Merchant Fleet is the exclusive right of House
V'neef, who defend the fleet with their own security forces (or Peleps escorts)
and their House's irregular marines.
