---
layout: default
title: Gender
permalink: /the-realm/sex-gender-love-family/gender/
parent: Sex, Gender, Love, and Family
grand_parent: The Realm
nav_order: 1
---

# Gender

_Gender_ is an ineffable and consistent trait of the soul, separate from _sex_
which is a trait of the body. Unlike the uncouth barbarian foreigners who often
think that such things are the same and inseparable, the Realm's enlightened
philosophy recognizes the difference. It is not your genitals which define your
role, but rather, your soul-nature.

## Femininity

_Femininity_ is poise, grace, self-control, and leadership. In the Realm, women
are expected to fill most or all positions of power, because women are wise,
dispassionate, calculating, and determined. Naturally, this makes them better
leaders than men, because women are able to focus on the long-term rather than
be slaves to their temporary passions.

### Feminine Emotionality

Femininity is defined through a rigid code of behaviors. In public, women are
expected to maintain perfect, steely composure at all times. Grand displays of
emotion are frowned upon. Joy, sorrow, grief, and success are all publicly to be
met with a graceful, silent demeanor and a perfectly-composed face. Subtle cues
like the motion of a fan or the twitch of an eyebrow are used to convey emotion
in an acceptable manner.

### Feminine Aesthetics

Feminine beauty is based in elegance. A beautiful woman moves like a flowing
river and glides along the ground like a leaf on the breeze. Tiny movements
convey great force. Makeup is used to accentuate the desireable feminine traits
of the face: the cheek bones and the eyes. A woman is often compared to a
flower: pristine, but thorny beneath.

## Masculinity

_Masculinity_ is passion, courage, dynamism, and physicality. In the Realm, men
are known to be controlled by their emotions and flighty, thrown in many
directions by the roiling storm of passion in their souls. Men are beautiful and
dangerous creatures, just as likely to hurt themselves as their foes unless they
are guided by a firm, feminine hand.

### Masculine Emotionality

Masculinity is defined, first and foremost, by emotion. Everyone knows that men
simply _feel_ more strongly than women. Like women, men are expected to control
themselves in public, but no one would fault a man if he were to burst out after
his honor was offended, or break down crying at a beautiful performance. Men are
expected to step aside for women when things get too tense, allowing the more
thoughtful sex to de-escalate the situation from its perious edge.

### Masculine Aesthetics

Masculine beauty is based in energy. A beautiful man burns like a wildfire or
twists like lightning. He strides with confidence and bows with humility; he
smiles like diamonds and his whole person glows with passionate energy. Likely,
a man's movements are firm and forceful, an expression of his roiling inner
self. Masculine make-up accentuates his passion: bright lips and shining eyes.
A man is often compared to a storm: dynamic and unaware of his own power.

## Transgender Dynasts

Gender is a trait of the soul, not of the body, and so it is natural that
sometimes the soul and the body would disagree. Of course, without question, the
soul is a person's true nature; the body is but a vessel, and water is not
defined by its shape.

Daana'd, the Immaculate Dragon of Water, teaches us that it is holy and good to
embrace one's soul-nature and transcend the limits of the body. Children who
display behavior which deviates from their body are pressured and encouraged to
take up their proper role as their true gender -- even if the child doesn't
quite realize it yet.

Some people straddle the line between masculinity and femininity; these people
are strange, but who can deny that it is a true expression of their soul? A few
odd ones claim to be _neither_ masculine nor feminine; such individuals clearly
simply do not understand their souls, for if gender is a trait of the soul, how
can one have a soul and not have a gender?

### Sorcery

Dynasts always marry according to their gender, not their genitals, and so
sometimes find themselves in arrangements where they cannot conceive. Such pairs
are **not** exempt from the overwhelming pressure to produce children; they are
just expected to go about it through other means.

Sorcery is often used to circumvent such limitations, weaving new children from
the parents' flesh, or using the parents' breath to grow a child within a
flower. Some people are uncomfortable with such arrangements, but the Dragon's
Gift is in the soul, not the flesh, and such children are just as likely to be
Chosen as any other.

A very rare few Dynasts use sorcery to transform their bodies. Such individuals
are unusual -- usually it is the result of difficulty reconciling their soul
with their body. Most Dynasts view these individuals as eccentric; the vast
majority of Dynasts seek no such procedure, because they know that their flesh
is irrelevant to their nature.
