---
layout: default
title: The Immaculate Dragons
permalink: /the-realm/immaculate-order/immaculate-dragons
parent: The Immaculate Order
grand_parent: The Realm
nav_order: 1
---

# The Immaculate Dragons

The Immaculate Dragons are the five warrior-saints that founded Immaculatism and
wrote the first of the Immaculate Texts. The Immaculate Dragons fulfill a
messianic role, having brought the wisdom of the Immaculate Order to the masses
after their conquest of the Anathema. They also fulfill an aspirational role, as
all Immaculates are encouraged to emulate them and their virtues.

## Aniconism

The Immaculate Order has a complicated relationship to images and icons. All
images of gods and spirits are forbidden, as such icons lead mortals astray and
encourage direct worship. Likewise, images of Immaculate figures are largely
forbidden as well, because these figures are to be admired and emulated, not
worshipped.

However, the status of temple iconography is more complicated. For many, many
periods throughout the Realm's history, the Order has voiced no objection to the
construction of statues as part of the architecture of temples. In fact, in many
cases, entire shrines are bedecked in draconic imagery. At other periods, the
Order has grown more conservative, and restricted the production of icons,
focusing instead on abstract representations.

No incarnations of the Order have encouraged iconoclasm, which has thankfully
left many ancient shrines in good repair. Even during very aniconic periods, the
monks have largely protected the statues, especially if the monk was old enough
to remember a more iconic period.

The current Order, under the XXI Mouth of Peace, is among the more liberal,
allowing depictions of the Immaculate Dragons in home shrines as well as in
temples. The Order formally disapproves of the production of trinkets, such
as necklaces carved in the image of Daana'd, but they are nonetheless very
popular among the peasantry.

## Daana'd

Danaa'd, the Arbiter of the Immaculate Complaint, is the Immaculate Dragon of
water. She is frequently depicted as a dark-haired woman in a breasplate,
carrying either a sword or trident. In her warrior aspect, she is sometimes
presented with a long, curling tongue, claws, and black skin; this figure is
called _Daana'd Vengeant_. In her aspect as an arbiter and judge, she is
often depicted blindfolded and strangling a serpent, which is said to represent
ignorance and prejudice. This _Danaa'd Obscure_ aspect is often seen at shrines
which serve judges and government officials.

Daana'd's life story is mostly contained in two epics: the _Younger Epic of_
_Daana'd_, which chronicles her origin and adventures as a wandering figure of
justice, and the _Epic of Daana'd Descendant_, which tells the story of her
role in the Anathema War and her trials to seal away the souls of the
devil-kings beneath the sea.

In strict aniconism, Daana'd is often symbolized by the lotus flower.

### Early Life of Daana'd

Daana'd is known to hail from a mystical kingdom called Sua, described in the
Texts as a temperate land of pearl. The physical location of Sua is disputed by
scholars. A majority believe it to be near the island of Soham in the Pendant
Isles, at the far western reaches of the Blessed Isle. Others claim it to be
even further, in the islands of the Southwest near the Caul, citing that Daana'd
is said to have "sailed across the waters" to find the Isle.

Three parallel narratives of Daana'd's birth exist in various texts. In the
first, Daana'd is said to have risen from the sea fully-formed as a baby, and
was carried to shore on the tides by a huge purple lotus flower. In the second,
Daana'd is said to have been born from a mighty pearl, coveted by the king of
Sua, which hatched like an egg when she was ready to be made. Lastly, Daana'd is
sometimes said to have been born to a sworn virgin sailor woman, who conceived
the child after receiving a vision of the Water Dragon beneath the sea.

Despite the fuzzy circumstances surrounding Daana'd's origin, the Texts are
largely in agreement about her childhood. It is said that by the time she was
five years old, Daana'd could speak as eruditely as a grown woman, and did not
need to drink, drawing instead on her own glory. Fish and crustaceans would
offer themselves to her so that she would not grow hungry. She was famed among
her people for her intelligence, martial skill, and judgement.

### The Trials of Daana'd

Upon coming of age, Daana'd rejected her childhood name, shaved her beard, and
set out into the world as a wandering magistrate seeking justice and
righteousness. The many adventures she got up to are compiled in part in the
_Younger Epic of Daana'd_. These tales emphasize Daana'd's skill at arms, but
more importantly, her wits and cleverness. In the _Younger Epic_, Daana'd wins
through ingenuity and deception as often as through martial conquest.

Eventually, Daana'd became so famed that the devil-kings of the Realm Before
came to test her virtue. The Texts recount that she endured five tests, one
each for the Forsaken, the Blasphemous, the Unclean, the Wretched, and the
Deceivers. However, only two stories are recognized as canonical by the
Immaculate Order, with the other three considered apocryphal.

The Test of the Crowning Sun was the test of the Blasphemous, which Daana'd
overcame with ease. The second test, the test of the Wretched, involved Daana'd
battling with the cruel Anathema warlord Moon-Cursed Gushan. This story
remains an extremely popular folktale. Formal Immaculate recitations emphasize
Daana'd's moral superiority -- Daana'd is self-sufficient and uses secrets to
protect the innocent from harm, where Gushan is cruel and unable to speak the
truth to his allies in his time of need. The popular retelling involves a lot
more duels.

### The Schooling of Samwat

Daana'd's antithesis is the Unmanly Babbler, a fool who relies on others to fix
their problems when the real solution lies within. In many of the Daana'd
stories, the boy Samwat is understood to represent this antithesis. A coward, a
fool, and a devoted follower of Daana'd, the character of Samwat seems to exist
in the Daana'd stories largely to ruin things, make poor decisions, and be
educated by Daana'd on his failings.

Dozens of parables, collectively the "Schooling of Samwat", detail his failings
and how Daana'd corrected them, often with clear morals for the reader. Many of
these fables are apocryphal, but a handful are canonical within the Order.
Scholars believe that if Daana'd's homeland of Sua were ever to be found, the
true canon of the Schooling of Samwat could be uncovered.

### The Epic of Daana'd Descendant

More famous than any other Daana'd story, the _Epic of Daana'd Descendant_ is
the defining epic of Daana'd and the one which most shapes her legacy and
image. Beginning shortly after the Five Days of Mela and the Immolation of
Hesiesh, the twelve parts of the _Descendant_ tell the story of Daana'd's
quest to imprison the souls of the Anathema deep beneath the sea.

Throughout the epic, Daana'd reflects on her duty and her struggle coming to
accept that she, like Hesiesh, must sacrifice herself for the good of humanity.
Other chapters chronicle her _Journey to the West_-like travels in the mythical
kingdoms beneath the sea, before finally assembling the required pieces of the
Jade Prison and making the ultimate sacrifice to seal the souls of the
devil-kings that they will never rise again.

The _Descendant_ is a transcription of the oral tradition of the epic on the
Silk-and-Pearl Peninsula, and thus exists in many forms, each reflecting a
different oral history. In some renditions, Daana'd remains beneath the sea as
a statue guardian of the prison, and will return to herald the rebirth of
Creation when she is needed most. In others, Daana'd escapes from the Underworld
and reaches unity with the Water Dragon.

### Daana'd's Purviews and Mystery Cults

Daana'd is the dragon of water, and thus naturally associated with sailors,
fisherfolk, boatmakers, beachcombers, and others who make their living by water.
Extending from her position as patron of sailors, Daana'd is also the protector
of all travelers, especially travelers-by-night.

Daana'd is also known as the Remover of Obstacles, a sacred figure who can be
invoked in times of hardship for devotion and strength. In times of injustice,
Daana'd is invoked as the Arbiter and defender. Lastly, Daana'd is also the
dragon of transitions, who guards the shore, represents transgender individuals,
and oversees the change of things from one state to the next.

Daana'd rivals Sextes Jylis as the most widely-worshipped of the dragons, with
peasant cults dedicated to her located in almost all villages and towns. As a
righteous and beloved hero, remover of obstacles, and defender of the weak, she
is especially worshipped in hard times. Peasants often believe that invoking
Daana'd can bring rain in times of drought and liberation in times of bondage.

Mystery cults of Daana'd are widespread, often emphasizing her trickster
nature. These cults often find secret wisdom in the Schooling of Samwat and the
Younger and Descending epics. Criminals often revere Daana'd as well, due to her
trickster nature. Many members of the criminal element have a tattoo of Daana'd
or aquatic imagery in her honor.

Common syncretizations of Daana'd include: Daana'd Wayfarer, syncretized with
gods of travel or the maiden Mercury of the House of Journeys; Daana'd of a
Thousand Faces, syncretized with gods of night, the moon, trickster spirits, and
criminal gods; and the Ashen Lady, who watches over the long, dark sail across
the seas of the dead.

### Emulation of Daana'd

Immaculates are encouraged to emulate Daana'd by bending without breaking, by
being clever and quick, by being devoted and righteous, and by being
self-sustaining and persistent. Daana'd encourages an Immaculate to face new
challenges and adapt to overcome them.

Water Aspects are encouraged to emulate Daana'd by retaining their focus. Water
has no shape, but instead takes on the shape of its vessel; it has no
boundaries, but flows around obstacles. Often, Water Aspects can find themselves
adrift, pulled in many shapes by their flows. Daana'd reminds them to focus on
what is important, and to define their own shapes.

## Hesiesh

Hesiesh, the Reciter of Loud Prayers and Efficacious Hymns, is the Immaculate
Dragon of fire. He is usually depicted as a bald, broad-faced monk with saffron
robes, a necklace of fist-sized prayer beads, and wrappings on his forearms. In
the eastern parts of the Blessed Isle, the iconic Hesiesh is pale, looks Wàn,
and clean-shaven, with a kufi cap. In many other parts, he is darker, and sports
a trim red beard. He is almost always seated and meditating.

In more strictly aniconic periods, Hesiesh is often symbolized by a flaming
eight-spoked wheel or an empty brazier.

Hesiesh has among the smallest bodies of stories; Pasiap has fewer, but only
because the _Epic of Pasiap_ is fragmented. Hesiesh's body of literature is
focused almost entirely in the _Epic of Hesiesh_, with only a handful of
supporting stories, mostly expanding on the cave meditations or his childish
adventures as a young prince.

### Early Life of Hesiesh

Hesiesh has the most coherent early-life narrative of any of the Five Imamculate
Dragons. He was born as a prince in "His Father's Kingdom," the name of which is
never specified. It is described as a land rich in magic and natural power, with
hot summers. Modern scholars identify many places as potential candidates for
The Kingdom of Hesiesh's Father: some identify the wonderful climate of Numinous
Rolling Wave Dominion, hoping to place Hesiesh on the Isle; others identify any
of a dozen kingdoms throughout the Threshold matching this description.

Unlike the other Dragons, Hesiesh usually has no strong supernatural element
attributed to the circumstances of his birth. His father was known to be an
Anathema king -- though some sources are more vague, leaving open the possiblity
that Hesiesh's Father was simply a mortal king allied to the Anathema or even a
Dragon-Blooded king lead astray by the Anathema's wicked words -- who desired to
appoint Hesiesh as his heir over Hesiesh's older sister. The Texts note that
Hesiesh's birth was foretold by a comet crossing the sky on the night of his
conception.

As a prince and favored heir in His Father's Kingdom, Hesiesh was raised in
luxury and with neither want nor need. From a young age, Hesiesh could see that
the life he was living was unjust. He frequently pointed out the contradictions
in his tutors' teachings and criticized their moral failings.

By the age of eight, Hesiesh had already begun to criticize the hypocrisy and
decadence of the devil-kings' world, so his father forbade him from leaving the
palace or from speaking to anyone aside from his tutors and his family. Despite
his father's provisions, Hesiesh continued to teach the other children of the
palace and gradually, they grew to know him as a boy of great character and
insight.

### Hesiesh in His Father's Court

The story of Hesiesh in His Father's Court tells about how Hesiesh came to
reject the decadence of the Anathema. After being shown his father's throne that
he is due to inherit -- "a giant seat, seven times or more in height the height
of the young dragon, and carved from solid gold; the cushion, bright red,
stuffed with feathers of Harum the Thunderbird; the sides carved with idols of
a thousand gods, each with rubies for eyes the size of a thumbnail; and raised
on a marble platform surrounded on all sides by a sea of mercury" -- Hesiesh was
repulsed by the decadence and refused to inherit the kingdom.

Hesiesh's father sent five ministers to try to convince him to take up the
throne. Hesiesh rebuffs the arguments of each by revealing how they are hollow,
selfish, or misleading. In the end, Hesiesh is moved to return to his duty by a
servant girl who convinces him that the kingdom would be worse under any other
ruler.

The story is one of three iconic tales of Hesiesh, and vitally introduces two
characters strongly associated with him: the servant girl Maythra and Hesiesh's
older sister Aodri. In various apocryphal tales of Hesiesh, these characters are
expanded upon. A particular heresy holds that Maythra in fact bore Hesiesh a
child in his younger days, who later helps the other Immaculate Dragons to
proselytize their religion after the Immolation of Hesiesh.

The ministers' arguments in this story are five broad arguments about duty,
justice, tradition, virtue, and leadership. Hesiesh refutes their arguments by
revealing their own failing of understanding -- such as revealing the supposed
argument to justice to be an argument to cruelty. These responses are so famous
as to be the source of several idioms within the Realm concerning failures of
these same values.

### The Burning Raiment and the Cave Meditations

At the time of his coronation, Hesiesh's father's ministers attempted to clothe
him in "the raiments of wicked kings," which ignited in flames as soon as they
touched his skin. The resultant fireball destroyed the palace and scarred
Hesiesh's father, who sent the forces of the Anathema after him. Hesiesh fled
the Anathema for ten days and ten nights. Every second night of the pursuit, he
saw a comet in the sky, drawing closer -- the same comet which foretold his
birth. The comet was actually the fires burning in the souls of all humans for
liberation from the forces of the devil-kings. On the tenth night, the comet
crashed into Hesiesh, and his pursuers break off chase because they cannot
approach the pyre.

Eventually, Hesiesh took up hermitage in a hidden cave. There, he meditated on
virtue for many years. In the darkness of the cave, his mind was freed from the
blinding Anathema light and he was able to achieve true wisdom. Hesiesh wrote
thousands of verses of wisdom on the walls in ash. He survived off of the water
dripping from the stalactites and what stray whisps of grain flew into the cave.
He is even said to have taken a breath only once every day and twice every
night.

While in the cave, hordes of demons try to tempt Hesiesh from his meditations.
Stories vary wildly about the demonic temptation, featuring everything from
swarms of stinging bees that burn when they touch his skin to poison snakes that
die when they bite him to seductive spirits that try to tempt him with the
shapes of nubile young men and voluptuous young women. Hesiesh refutes each
demon with a barking prayer, driving them out of the cave with the power of his
voice, and a sermon which banishes them back to Hell.

Every telling ends with Hesiesh defeating the final demon by singing a hymn so
true and powerful that it is converted to Immaculatism on the spot. In most
variations, this demon is the living storm Garuvar, who becomes known as the
Foremost Among the Virtuous Demons. Some variations, not recognized as canonical
by the Order, feature Hesiesh's older sister Aodri, corrupted by Anathemic
influence, as the final demon.

Hesiesh is reputed to have never in his life spoken an unnecessary word, and is
admired for his terse, poetic wisdom. The proverbs, koans, prayers, hymns, and
recitations of the cave meditations are insightful summarizations of complicated
moral and ethical dilemmas. These startling insights today form the basis of
Immaculate moral philosophy.

### The Immolation of Hesiesh

The final iconic tale of Hesiesh is by far his most famous story: the story of
his death by self-immolation and the purging of the world. This tale is
recorded in the last chapters of the _Epic of Hesiesh_.

During the Five Days of Mela, as she leads the forces of the Righteous Army of
Liberation against the devil-kings, Hesiesh avoids the fighting and spends his
time cultivating religion among the soldiers. Hesiesh gives many short sermons
and resolves many conflicts among the rear forces, focused more on the
spiritual well-being of the men than victory.

Hesiesh periodically debates with Mela, arguing for peace against her arguments
for war. Central to their conflict is the role of human beings in war: is it
worth the toil, sin, and pain of war to defend the virtuous peace? Throughout
these chapters, Hesiesh is heartbreakingly genuine in his appeals for peace,
even shedding tears over the slain soldiers of the Anathema, who are but pawns
in a war larger than any of them can know.

The debate between Mela and Hesiesh is left unsettled. Each point which one of
them makes is perfectly countered by the other, leaving their debate in exact
equilibrium. At the end of the Five Days, as Mela is struggling to end the war
by eliminating the last devil-kings, she nearly falls to fatigue, having worn
herself thin. Hesiesh steps in to defend her, and enacts violence for the first
and last time in his life.

After handily defeating the final devil-king, Hesiesh warns Mela to find shelter
for herself, the other dragons, and her men. Hesiesh takes a lotus position
in the center of the battlefield, and as the vicious hungry ghosts of the slain
devil-kings begin to rise, calls out echoing prayers as he immolates himself in
his own anima. The purging fires of his righteous devotion sweep across the
whole of Creation, burning away the corpses of the war and assuring rest for all
those slain in the conflict.

### Hesiesh's Purviews and Mystery Cults

Hesiesh is a distant entity for many Immaculates, a serene and contemplative
figure associated with meditation, the act of devotion, spiritual wellness, and
internal alchemy. People often revere Hesiesh with the goal of achieving long
life and serenity. His patronages include musicians, artits, policemen,
keepers-of-the-peace, and monarchs, owing to his royal heritage.

Hesiesh is occasionally attributed to more eccentric patronages as well. He is
often considered a patron of bakers, cooks, and tea-makers, as the _Epic of_
_Hesiesh_ notes that his only weakness was a love of food and tea. Bathhouses
often have a shrine to Hesiesh, believing that his hot breath helps keep their
baths steamy. For unknown reasons, peasants often associate Hesiesh with cats.

Mystery cults of Hesiesh are few and far between. Many of these cults are based
around the worship of a supposed fragment of his skeleton -- though several
temples and relics are recognized by the Order as originating from Hesiesh,
these bone-cults rarely have any grounding. Peasants often erect heretical
edifices of Hesiesh, believing that his image frightens malicious spirits away.

### Emulation of Hesiesh

Immaculates attempt to emulate Hesiesh by cultivating wisdom, practicing
self-control, by being compassionate and virtuous, and by responding to
falsehood with the truth. Emulating Hesiesh involves practicing meditation,
the fasting traditions of many holidays, and a serene detachment from the
temporary passions of the world.

Fire Aspects are encouraged to emulate Hesiesh by studying his control. He is
known to have been precise, deliberate, and contained. Fire Aspects are often
drawn to spontaneous action without considering the consequence of their action,
and Hesiesh reminds them to consider and contain.

## Mela

Mela, the Petitioner of Clouds Accordant to the Call of Battle, is the
Immaculate Dragon of air. In many depictions, she is a gray-haired woman with
armor and a spear. As _Mela Insightful_, she wears a broad conical straw hat,
carries a bandolier of scrolls and ink, raises one hand in contemplation and
holds a wreath in the other. In her aspect as _Mela Perilous_, she appears as a
six-armed woman in motion, running forward, brandishing two swords, a lantern,
a horn, and making the Sign of Saturn with her two remaining hands.
Mela Perilous wears a towering headdress and is nude from the waist up.

In strongly aniconic times, Mela may be depicted by a swirling triskelion, a
radiant feather, or an encircled fan.

The _First Epic of Mela_, the _Second Epic of Mela_, and the _Final Epic of_
_Mela_ describe Mela's life, with a heavy emphasis on her role as the supreme
commander of the forces of the Righteous Army of Liberation. Her Epics are rich
in military detail, and the _Thousand Correct Actions of the Upright Soldier_
borrows many idioms and techniques from these epics.

### Early Life of Mela

Mela was the first of the Immaculate Dragons to incarnate into the world,
leading the others by many decades. The _First Epic of Mela_ begins with Mela as
an adult, and contains scant references to her childhood; as a result, differing
accounts of her childhood have emerged over time.

The most widespread account of Mela's birth describes her as "a forceful and
impetuous wind," tearing through many evils as a youth. In this account, she is
said to have been born from the heart of a storm and emerged fully-formed as a
young adult, bearing a lightning spear of virtue. She then laid siege to the
warlord Yasu the Great and defeated him in single combat.

A much later, and much more controversial, account emerged during the early
Shogunate period, and is often attributed to the insights of Immaculate abbot
Ten Peaches in Harmony. This account describes Mela as being born in mundane
circumstances to two peasants, and skilled in arms a child. After her family is
slaughtered by Yasu the Great, the child Mela takes up a mundane spear and uses
it to slay him, thereupon transforming the spear into her mighty weapon.

The child Mela is said to have known how to read and write from the moment she
was born, and to know poetry and meter by the sound of wind whipping through the
branches. Mela's most common miracles include summoning spirits with her
fingernails and binding them with her hair, whispering to the sky to change the
weather, and breathing chill winter to freeze her foes.

### The First Epic of Mela

The _First Epic of Mela_ begins with Mela as a grown woman, traveling the many
ancient cities of the Anathema to test her skill-at-arms against the greatest
warriors the Anathema have to offer. She defeats all of the Anathema's masters
with ease, and in so doing develops the five Immaculate Martial Arts.
Eventually, her ashamed and defeated foes raise an army to defeat her, and
narrowly manage to drive her into exile. While traveling between the cities, she
is waylaid by many side adventures, including sealing away the
one-hundred-and-eight wrathful ghosts at Red Plum Gorge, defeating a poetry god
in a game of rhymes set to music, and the cleansing of the Library At Qupo.

The _First Epic of Mela_ chronicles a time in Mela's life before the incarnation
of the other Immaculate Dragons, and features a Mela who is, individually, more
powerful than she appears in the later epics. It is also likely the youngest of
the three epics, leading some branches of Immaculatism to consider it
non-canonical. The Immaculate Order currently considers large parts of it
apocryphal, but preserves the canonicity of some chapters. The _Younger_
_Epic of Mela_, named in accordance with the _Younger Epic of Daana'd_, is the
Order's abbreviated canonical version of the _First Epic_.

### The Second Epic of Mela

The second epic of Mela begins in Mela's exile from the lands of the Anathema
kings, and focuses on the story of her gathering the other Immaculate Dragons
and her foundation of the Righteous Army of Liberation. In contrast to the
_First Epic_, the second epic -- hailing from a much earlier period -- features
a greater emphasis on Mela's community-building and strategic genius than on her
individual martial skill.

Mela is prompted to unite the Immaculate Dragons after receiving the _Vision of_
_Clouds and the Shaking of the Earth_, which is conveyed in a prismatic dream
sequence lasting nine chapters. Awakening back into the world, Mela swears her
Three Oaths, and locates the other Immaculate Dragons by following the patterns
of clouds in the sky. Having done so, Mela conquers several outlying kingdoms in
a brief and vicious campaign, and assembles the Righteous Army of Liberation to
finally defeat the Anathema.

During her assembly, the Anathema sent three agents to crush her spirits and
stray her from her course. In challenging these Anathema, Mela is forced to
undergo three sacrifices. First, the Anathema targeted her Love by murdering her
unnamed and undetailed lover. Second, the Anathema destroy her Home by razing
the kingdom of her youth and desecrating the tombs of her people. Lastly, the
Anathema target her Cameraderie by separating Mela from her saint-like traveling
companions. After enduring each of the Three Sacrifices, Mela redoubles her
intent to defeat the Anathema, and delivers a speech indicating the virtuous
reaction to loss and grief.

The _Second Epic_ notably does not feature the character of Pasiap, who
incarnated into the world during the Anathema War. Likewise, despite describing
Mela's early campaigns in extensive detail, the _Second Epic of Mela_ does not
feature the Anathema War. These facts, combined with commentaries from the early
period and references in the sutras, indicate that the actual chronicle of the
early years of the Anathema War are within the lost and fragmented _Epic of_
_Pasiap_.

### The Final Epic of Mela

The _Final Epic of Mela_ consists entirely of a depiction of the Five Days of
Mela, the final five days of the Anathema War. It tells the story of Mela's
generalship in leading the Righteous Army of Liberation against the
slave-soldiers of the last Anathema devil-kings, of Mela summoning storms and
binding spirits in aid of the war, and lastly of Mela's
death-by-a-thousand-stings on the end of the final day. The end of the _Final_
_Epic_ features the Immolation of Hesiesh (which is recorded in significantly
more detail in the _Epic of Hesiesh_), and the Great Mourning Celebration that
marks the end of the war and the liberation of humanity.

Mela was, of course, successful in leading the Righteous Army, but faced her own
death at the end of the war. During her final climactic battles with the
Forsaken generals of the devil-kings, Mela is able to defeat them, but at great
cost to herself. Weary and fading, Mela is susceptible to the poisons and
magical diseases of the "sour-edged swords and acrid spears" of the Anathema and
contracts a condition so morbid that even Sextes Jylis is unable to heal her.
Mela lives to see the Great Mourning Celebration -- where the surviving Dragons
establish Immaculatism with great prayers and honor the dead -- but dies the
following morning.

Upon her death, Mela sublimates into a divine storm, tearing through the dead
cities of the Anathema and purging them of stragglers. When the storm dies down,
Mela reunites with the Elemental Dragons and leaves no trace. Although such a
fact is not noted in the _Epic_, it is widely believed that upon transforming
into a storm, Mela gave an instantaneous virgin birth to a daughter, who grew to
a full-grown woman in five days and eventually founded the First Dragon-Blooded
Shogunate. Early in the Realm's history, the Order, in collaboration with the
Empress' ministries, undertook an expansive genealogical effort, and traced the
lineage of the Empress back to this daughter. Thus, it is canon within the Order
that the Sacred Daughter was born and that the Scarlet Empress is her
descendant.

### Mela's Purviews and Mystery Cults

Mela is obviously associated with generalship, martial skill, and the act of
battle. She is widely revered by soldiers, Legionnaires, mercenaries, and others
who make their living by the sword. Especially in the abroads, Mela is also a
source of radical and widespread syncretism. The Order has, in its time, stamped
out hundreds of cults blending Mela with local gods of war, combat, and
strategy. The cult of Mela Perilous is widespread among the Legions, and some
soldiers even construct the figure of _Mela Rouge_, a figure blending Mela, the
Empress, and the maiden Mars of the House of Battles into a potent figure of
war.

Beyond her purview of war and battle, Mela is also a patron of scholars. She is
famed as a wise and fiercely intelligent woman, the greatest warrior-poet to
have ever lived. Mela holds patronage over scholars and shares patronage over
poets with Hesiesh. Although she is never described as a sorcerer in any of her
epics or in any sutras, Mela is also often thought of as a patron of sorcerers,
owing to her miraculous powers to bind spirits, control the weather, and evince
mystical knowledge.

Mystery cults of Mela exist beyond her ilicit worship by soldiers and scholars.
Owing to her miraculous feats in the _Younger Epic_, shrines of worship to Mela
can crop up almost anywhere on the Isle or in the Threshold that obvious
mystical happenings can be seen. In these cults, Mela is described as the
ultimate cause of the phenomenon and she is worshipped either in gratitude for
the phenomenon or to guard against its spreading.

### Emulation of Mela

Immaculates are called upon to emulate Mela by being excellent at things. Mela's
defining characteristic is her arete in many different fields. Emulating Mela
entails developing your own skills, mastering yourself, and never settling for
good enough. Mela is also emulated through strong community involvement. As the
organizer of the Righteous Army of Liberation, Mela teaches us that we must be
active in our communities and share of ourselves and our skills. This is why
her antithesis is the Sickly Whore, who squanders her natural gifts and does not
share with the community.

Air Aspects can often be disconnected or float through the world with their
heads in the clouds, forgetting to focus on the tangible and meaningful. Mela's
investment and focus on personal excellence remind Air Aspects that they must
act, as well as conceive, in order for their lofty ideas to come to fruition.
