---
layout: default
title: Temples and Services
permalink: /the-realm/immaculacy/temples-and-services/
parent: Immaculacy
grand_parent: The Realm
nav_order: 2
---

# Temples and Services

The Immaculate house of worship is called the _temple_. Where the family shrine
is the focus of spirituality for the individual, the temple is the focus of
spirituality for the community. Temples serve not only as places to hold
ceremonies and lectures, but also as centers for community activity.

Immaculate faithful are called to attend temples regularly and frequently. The
temple is the beating heart of the local Immaculate community, and the main
place in which the faithful are able to interact formally with the monks. Monks
often leave the temple grounds to invest themselves in the community, so it is
not the _only_ place to encounter them, but all threads of faith lead back to
the temple.

Monks are the formal clergy of the Immaculate Order, those who have given up
their material life in order to pursue a spiritual one. For many Immaculates,
the presence of monks is ubiquitous. If a temple is nearby, then there are monks
there, who offer frequent wisdom, insight, and suggestions for moral life. Even
in the most remote villages, monks sometimes come to visit, bringing wisdom and
advice.

The Order is devoted to ensuring that every devout Immaculate, no matter their
far-flung location, has access, even if only occasionally, to the wisdom of the
Order and guidance on their spiritual affairs. All monks are empowered to make
decisions based on the Texts and offer advice on personal affairs. When a
community loses a monk to death or her retirement to a monastery, there is great
sadness, for the community has not only lost a leader, but also a close friend
and confidant -- sometimes of many generations.

## Immaculate Temples

Immaculate temples are designed in accordance with principles of sacred geometry
and geomancy. They are laid out in a shape that concentrates positive energy
at the focal point, where the innermost sanctum is arranged. Symmetry is a
major focus of the temple, representing harmony and stability.

Very small temples, such as the consecrated household shrines found on many
Dynastic compounds, are not bound by these designs, and usually consist only of
what would be the central building in a larger temple. Monks out in the world
are sometimes called upon for use of a temple when none is available; in these
cases, they can construct an on-the-fly sanctified temple by simply drawing a
square in the dirt and inscribing a circle within it.

### Parts of a Temple

The temple is composed of two subdivisions: the _outer temple_ and the _inner_
_temple_. The design of the inner temple is fairly standardized and fixed, while
the design of the outer temple can vary wildly.

#### The Inner Temple

![Diagram of the Inner Temple](../../../assets/immaculacy/immaculate-temple.png)

The inner temple is a standardized layout based on Pasiap's Sacred Geometry: the
circle inscribed within the square. In this mystical plan, the square represents
Creation, and the interior circle represents the sacred temple space. The
square, which is usually the outer wall, is always aligned so that the four
corners each point in a cardinal direction.

A typical inner temple is designed with a large circular ambulatory, surrounding
a central interior circle. This circle houses a square building, arranged with
corners facing the centers of the sides of the outer wall; each face thus points
in a cardinal direction, with a wide window looking out over the shrine in that
corner.

Each corner of the inner temple is home to a shrine representing one of the
Immaculate Dragons: Mela to the north, Sextes Jylis to the east, Hesiesh to the
south, and Daana'd to the west. The shrine to Pasiap is housed within the
central building. Thus, every temple has five major shrines housed within the
inner temple.

The four directional shrines are often very grand, and usually free-standing
buildings surrounded by gardens within their wedge. In small temples, these
shrines may be housed within gazebos, but sprawling temples will construct
entire buildings. One popular shape is _Pasiap's Cudgel_:

![Pasiap's Cudgel](../../../assets/immaculacy/pasiaps-cudgel.png)

The cudgel features a large entry room for meditation and reflection, and an
elevated interior room where the shrine itself is housed.

The shapes of the buildings within the inner temple is variable, as long as it
remains symmetrical. Some larger temples enclose the inner temple entirely, with
arcing glass allowing sunlight into the ambulatory; most temples, however, leave
the inner temple exposed to the air.

#### The Outer Temple

The outer temple is all parts of the temple that surround the walls of the inner
temple. For small temples, there may be very little of the outer temple, simply
a manicured ground and some buildings for the monks to live inside of. In large
temples, the outer temple may have another set of walls or even two, and the
space can be home to dozens of buildings, spectacular gardens, and towering
minarets.

Monks make their homes within the outer temple, as well as carry out most of
their non-faithful business here. The outer temple usually features public
buildings like schoolrooms, meditation halls, and clinics. The outer temple is
meant to be extremely accessible to the community, to provide a place in which
the community can gather and interact with their spiritual leaders.

It is traditional, even in sparsely-populated areas, to feature a special gate,
the "Rainbow Gate", which is only permitted to be used by the Dragon-Blooded.
The Rainbow Gate features a direct path to the inner temple via the "Stormcloud
Gate"; this allows the Princes of the Earth to go about their business
unimpeded. In many temples, the rainbow gate and stormcloud gate are the most
intricately decorated gates in the facility.

### Uses of the Temple

In addition to providing a sacred space for formal services, the temple is also
a meeting place and hub of the community. Monks encourage frequent visits to the
temple, and all holidays and celebrations are held within the temple.

The temple watches over all stages of life and has ceremonies for all occasions.
Throughout the Blessed Isle, children are not named until they are brought to
the temple and have their name recited by a monk in a naming ceremony -- until
that point, they are simply "boy" or "girl." Marriages are usually performed at
the local temple, as well as celebrations of birth and mourning of the dead. The
temple is home to the local House of the Dead, usually in the outer temple or
outside the temple entirely and accessed by a path, which houses the cremated
remains of the dead and serves as a place of remembrance for the deceased.

The monks at the temple are responsible for basic education, so the temple often
has chambers set aside for schooling and childcare. The monks are often the most
qualified people to act as physicians, so many temples include a House of the
Ailing where the monks can tend to the wounded, offer herbal treatments, and
ease suffering.

Monks are outside of politics and expert maintainers of old texts, so local
governments often shelter their records within the local temple. Sometimes local
workers even trust the temple to handle the accounting of loans, leaving
valuable collateral to the temple, where it is secured within the walls and will
not be absconded with during the process of settlement.

In conclusion, the temple provides for all aspects of life. The local temple is
often a vital organ of local public life, a place where all ranks of the
community come and go. The monks serve as a social glue that spans boundaries of
class and status, an impartial outside force that offers wisdom and guidance.

## Services
