---
layout: default
title: Life in the Dynasty
permalink: /the-realm/life-in-the-dynasty/
parent: The Realm
nav_order: 1
---

# Life in the Dynasty

Life in the Dynasty is comfortable and prosperous. You are the ruling class of
the world's most powerful empire. Queens across the world would give up their
kingdoms for a day of the life you live.

## Parties and Politics

Parties are the core of Dynastic social life. There are lavish celebrations for
every occasion -- birth, death, and all in between.

**Salons** are private gatherings. Although everyone is well-dressed and showing
off (Dynasts are always well-dressed and showing off), the attendees are mostly
friends or gathered for a reason. A cards tournament, a recounting of war
stories, or just gossip are all reasons to attend a salon. After a few days of
enjoying one another's company, the attendees go their own ways.

**Galas** are massive formals celebrating something. Every Dynast in the region
is going to be invited, even if the host hates them -- although such people may
often find their invitation "lost" on the way. These occasions are the ritziest
and swingingest parties the Dynasty has to offer. The legendary orgies and drunk
escapades of poorly-behaved Dynasts almost always begin at a gala. A gala starts
in the morning and ends at night; that is, night several days later...

**Celebrations** are public festivals open to everyone, including the peasantry.
Usually celebrations don't have much effort put into them, because they're
going to be the same from year to year. These are the public events you probably
dreaded going to as a child, dressed up in stupid clothes and sitting bored in a
chair while your mother droned on to the masses.

## Marriage and Family

Marriage is absolutely expected of every Dynast, except for monks. Marriage is
almost always a political affair; love and affection have no relevance. It is
both expected and accepted that spouses will have extramarital affairs. As long
as such dalliances do not produce unexpected children, they are not punished and
are rarely grounds for blackmail.

Children are all but mandatory for Dynasts. They are how the dragon's blood can
perpetuate to future generations; children are the future. After the child is
born, they are raised by their nannies and tutors until they are sent off to
school to become a productive member of society.

## Sex and Gender

Homosexuality is completely accepted within the Realm and has no stigma. The
Empress herself was noted to prefer women. Homosexual marriages are occasionally
permitted; these are always love marriages, however, so they are quite rare.
Many Dynasts in heterosexual marriages are publicly homosexual, taking same-sex
lovers outside of their marriage; since these arrangements cannot produce
children, they are not regarded as anything mroe than an indulgence.

It is accepted axiomatically that a transgender individual's identity is that
which they express. The Immaculate Dragon Danaa'd was a transgender woman, and
being such is normal and holy. Likewise, the First Consort Rawar of Arjuf was
born as a woman despite his later marriage to the Empress, and is one of the
most beloved and respected figures in the history of the Realm.

Neither homosexuality nor transgender identity are excuses to fail to produce
children. Sex is divorced from sexuality, and so homosexual Dynasts are still
expected to grin and bear it. Adoption and fostering are also always available
as options. Lastly, sorcerous techniques such as moonflower babies and neomah
flesh-magic allow for the creation of children _without_ sex at all -- and this
"Precedent of Rawar" places an expectation of children onto transgender Dynasts
as well. There is _no_ excuse to fail to produce kids.

## Food

Rice is a staple for all classes of the Realm. In this regard, it is one of the
few true universal commonalities. Everybody, from the Empress herself down to
the lowliest slave, eats rice as a staple grain.

Dynastic food is almost always _haute cuisine_, prepared for beauty and good
taste by trained chefs. Bread and rice are often a large part of the meal, just
like with all people. On top of that, you can expect richly-spiced meats of all
kinds, as varied as traditional pork and lamb to exotic meats like peacock,
squid, and angler lizard. Grilled or pickled vegetables are always a favorite.
Mushrooms and beans provide tasty, hearty filler.

It is quite gauche to serve a meal twice in public without several years in
between, so public feasts are almost always novel concoctions. It is very
unusual to eat with your family unless it is for an event. A Dynastic dining
hall has two tables -- one for the Exalted scions and their spouses, and another
for the rest of the family.

## Living Arrangements

The Great Houses have huge, expansive estates like villages unto themselves. On
a typical estate, you can expect to find dozens of buildings including a main
hall, residences for the family, several baracks of servants, and so on.

All children of the household get their own huge rooms, of course. The favored
children probably also have a balcony and a little courtyard.

Architecture looks a lot like Imperial China: pagodas, white stone walls, and
terra cotta tile rooves. This is the Wàn style and it is the "default" for most
of the Isle. In addition to the Wàn style, local regions have their own unique
styles.

## Law and Order

As a Dynast, your family was involved in administering the local Guardians of
the Realm, often called the Black Helmets. These peacekeeping officers gather
rumors and reports of crime in order to arrest criminals and keep the peace.
They have conical black helmets that are quite spooky if you've done wrong.

The ones _you_ have had to watch out for are the Imperial Force, the police
tasked with policing the Dynasty. Often, these officers are accompanied by a
magistrate, who is a Dragon-Blooded herself. The Black Helmets couldn't even
touch you; the whole purpose of the Red Belts is to keep you in line.

Most peasants who are arrested for crimes probably deserved it.

## Entertainment

In addition to the endless parties, Dynasts make time to enjoy their life.
Every social class on the Isle makes time for sports and games.

Popular sports include wrestling, boxing, [quoits](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Quoits),
[tuho](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pitch-pot), kite-fighting, jousting, boat
racing, horse racing, [cuju](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cuju),
[harpastum](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Harpastum), and more.

Games are often based around cards or dice, such as [cho han](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ch%C5%8D-han),
[hazard](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hazard_(game)), and
[throwing-heaven-and-nine](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tien_Gow). Card games
use a Dynasty deck, with five suits (Banners, Jewels, Lamps, Ewers, and
Flowers) and 14 cards per rank. Dominoes are popular in certain areas, and
among House Tepet. Dynasts also enjoy board games like Gateway, pai sho, go,
backgammon, and hunt-the-Anathema.

Books are popular among the literate. Traveling minstrels of good repute are
often brought to the palace to perform. Music is played on the
[sanxian](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sanxian), the [erhu](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Erhu),
the [guzheng](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Guzheng), the [dizi](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dizi_(instrument)),
the [guban](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Guban_(instrument)), and the
[zhu](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Zhu_(string_instrument)).

## Travel

As a Dynast, you can travel wherever you like whenever you like. All you need to
do is make arrangements for transport; you'll find someone at your destination
to house you if you need a place to stay.

Peasants need paperwork in order to travel.
