---
layout: default
title: Ru Languages
permalink: /blessed-isle/languages/ru/
parent: Languages of the Blessed Isle
grand_parent: The Blessed Isle
nav_order: 8
---

# Ru Languages

The Ru languages cover the Silk-and-Pearl Peninsula, the northwestern reaches of
the Isle, and most of the Tarpan Wastes. They are an extremely diverse family;
some scholars argue that the Ru family is in fact several constituent families.

The Ru languages are extremely dissimilar to the Wànzi languages, so much so
that many people struggle to believe that they are related at all. However,
careful study from talented linguists have identified that the grammatical
forms and phonologies of the Isle blend together in a spectrum that clearly
shows they are all related to one another. A few words are even similar enough
in the Ru family and the Wànzi family that the relationship is impossible to
deny.

## Characteristics of the Ru Languages

The Ru languages mostly have a four way distinction in stops: they distinguish
voiced from unvoiced and aspirated from unaspirated. In most Ru languages, then,
the sounds _p_, _ph_, _b_, and _bh_ are all distinct from one another. They also
mostly retain a full set of retroflex consonants.

The Ru languages favor open syllables, but allow for any consonant at the end of
a syllable. The start can also be a cluster of any stop and an _r_: _pr-_,
_dhr-_, etc.

The Ru languages are not tonal, but most retain a long/short distinction like
High Realm. Long vowels do not occur in closed syllables. Some Ru languages
only use _i_, _a_, _u_, and their long equivalents; others use all five vowels
and their long forms.

Grammatically, the Ru languages have integrated many of the old clitics and
helper words into proper affixes. That means that unlike the one-word-per-word
rule of the Wànzi languages, a Ru word has a proper internal structure. They
tend to a strong SVO word order.

## Status of the Ru Languages

## Accent Features of the Ru Languages

## Making a Ru Name

### The Sounds

The Ru languages have more sounds than most of the Isle's languages. You can
use the following symbols: _p_, _ph_, _b_, _bh_, _t_, _th_, _d_, _dh_, _c_,
_ch_, _j_, _jh_, _m_, _n_, _ng_, _s_, _sh_, _h_, _r_, and _l_. The _ph_, _th_,
etc. consonants are like in an Indian name -- _ph_ sounds like _p_, not like an
_f_.

For vowels, you can use: _i_, _ii_, _e_, _ee_, _a_, _aa_, _u_, _uu_, _o_, and
_oo_. Use _wa_, _wo_, etc. and _ya_, _yo_, etc. as though they were simple
vowels; you can use them after any consonant.

### The Shape

Our old friend C-V-C-V-C is a _great_ structure for a name. You can also add
some more syllables -- and then use a shortened version as your "nickname" since
your full name is longer. Three or four syllables can also work really well.

If you want to spice it up a little, you can start a syllable with the
following: _pr-_, _phr-_, _br-_, _bhr-_, _tr-_, _thr-_, _dr_, _dhr-_, etc. I
might even do something crazy like _mr-_, but only at the real start of a name
otherwise it's too hard.

I would avoid using a double letter right before a closing consonant -- those
syllables are very "heavy" and kind of grody to pronounce. So in general use
_Sid_ instead of _Siid_.

### Some Example Names

Sindratha, Bhagwei, Shaamol, Mujham, Isigale, Khwothi, Andyonang, Chaani,
Dhoshyamuna (nickname ’Muna).
