---
layout: default
title: History
permalink: /the-realm/history/
parent: The Realm
nav_order: 5
has_children: true
---

# History

The Realm has been a coherent political entity for over seven centuries. During
that time, it has expanded under the Empress' rule from a single city-state to a
massive imperial and military power. All of Creation bends a knee to the Realm.

## Ancient History

Long ago, Creation was ruled by an empire of gold-and-silver devil kings, who
were decadent and cruel. This ancient land, the Realm Before, was both beautiful
and cruel. It was built on the backs of enslaved humanity, and although it
created wonders beyond measure, it also devoured without concern and was founded
on the decadence and wanton cruelty of its devil-kings.

The Dragon-Blooded host rose up under the guidance of the Immaculate Dragons and
slew the devil-kings. They then set forth to set right in the world.

## The Shogunate Period

The period after the fall of the Realm Before and preceding the foundation of
the Realm is known as the _Shogunate Period_. This period is named after the
common title of its founders, the title of _Shogun_. In the Realm Before, the
Shoguns were Dragon-Blooded supreme generals of the Anathema; after the
Righteous Army of Liberation freed the world, the Dragon-Blooded host
reorganized themselves under the command of various shoguns.

The Shogunate persisted for roughly 600 years, until the Thousand Tragedies
Period. The western capital was Karaleshen, the city today called Lord's
Crossing.

### Political Organization of the Shogunate

In many ways, the Shogunate period quickly became a shared fiction of the many
Shogunate states, a fictitious unity which lead to a curious system of political
and economic interlacing. The nominal unification did little to stymie the many,
many wars and conflicts during the period, but ensured a shared decorum of
making war, trading goods, and diplomatic protocols.

The Shogunate states were each headed by a _shogun_, who ruled as a military
dictator over their state. Among themselves, the Shoguns would nominate a
leader in the form of a _Tenno_, "Heavenly Sovereign" or "Supreme Commander."
The authority of the Tenno was the political authority under which all trade and
war was conducted.

In reality, the position of Tenno quickly devolved into a figurehead position,
doled out to relatives or monarchs in good standing with the Shoguns. The Tenno
was frequently succeeded by a Regent, who was just a Shogun with enough
political clout to get put in charge.

The perception of unity under the Tenno lead to many treaties and a great
exchange of culture among the Shogunate states, even during periods of
conflict. Diplomats and ambassadors followed many rituals and
observances out of respect for the authority of the Tenno. The political
situation between the major states was just as often amicable as violent.

Instead of Great Houses, the Shogunate period had _gentes_ (singular _gens_),
some of which survived as early Great Houses. Lookshy, that military state
across the ocean, still has gentes. Some of them are still around as Cadet
Houses out in the satrapies.

### Economic Organization of the Shogunate

The Blessed Isle states were collectively known as the _allodial-states_, and
their colonies and holdings overseas, as well as the independent states of the
Inner Sea, were known as the _marcher-states_. For most of the Shogunate, the
primary economic model was the "refinery economy" model.

In the refinement economy, the wealth, power and status of the allodial-states
is derived from their ability to mine, refine, and export jade, which is
consumed voraciously by the marcher-states for various purposes including the
monetary economy, Artifact production, and Wyld-warding projects.

The Shogunate's primary currency was based on the jade standard, and the
material wealth of land was tied first to its jade production, then secondarily
to its ability to produce food. Export was heavily specialized on jade shipment,
leaving the economy of more mundane goods to independent merchants.

Trade and commerce were vital for the function of the state, but were not held
in the same prestige as martial skill. For this reason, many gentes chose to
delegate these affairs and duties to their non-Exalted cousins or subservient
families, which some scholars point to as a proto-patriciate which laid the
foundation for the Empress' formalization of the three-tier social order.

### Religious Organization of the Shogunate

The Shogunate's defining religious feature is the meteoric rise of Immaculacy as
a shared religious context. The Shogunate states were responsible for the near
universal adoption of Immaculacy by the Isle's peoples and the spread of the
Immaculate Faith into the near-threshold in the form of marcher-states.

The early Immaculate doctrine resembles modern Immaculate doctrine, but the
Shogunate period had dozens of competing lineages based off of competing sacred
manuals, until the eventual consolidation of the roughly four main lineages that
account for 99% of Immaculate practitioners today. As a result, records of
practice and ritual during the Shogunate vary wildly depending on the trends and
fashions of the century.

Many of the greatest and most respected opinions and commentaries, some of which
have been canonized and included in the Texts, were penned during the Shogunate.
In summy, the Shogunate religious landscape was a time of radical upheaval in
religious context, and characterized by rapid experimentation and codification
of what eventually lead to modern practice.

### Decline of the Shogunate

The Shogunate was a glorious martial and economic period, but Fate would have it
that it was not meant to be eternal. Modern scholars point to the first Regent
as the point in which the Shogunate became corrupted and lost sight of its
original purpose -- the removal of the power of the Tenno is, to them, the first
sign that the Shoguns were more concerned with politics than with actually
defending the Isle from outside threats.

During the six centuries of Shogunate authority, the position of Shogun was
gradually phased out from most kingdoms, who instead adopted local monarchies as
a way of distancing themselves from the nominal authority of the Tenno. This
lead, for example, to the Xianyu Kings and the Triumphate of Arjuf, which will
be discussed further in the [Unification Period](/venture/the-realm/history/unification-period/).
The refinery economy slowed gradually as demand for jade outpaced the ability of
the central states to reliably export it.

The Shogunate period was also a time of decline for many of the strange and
marvelous relics of the Realm Before. Many of these powerful Artifacts proved to
be unrepairable without the decadent sacrifices and expansive infrastructure of
the devil-kings. Invasions and conflict with the Anathema at the edges of the
marcher-states destroyed many of these relics as well, and cost thousands of
Dragon-Blooded lives in defense of the world.

With the slow decline of the nominal authority of the Tenno and a rise in the
willingness of the allodial-states to go to open war, the late Shogunate period
is characterized by constant battle. Many of the states turned on one another
with the goal of expanding their own holdings and influence, and the diplomatic
and economic norms began to crumble. Within the states, the gentes warred among
themselves in games of spies and knives, and corrupt ministers hoarded piles of
jade at the expense of the nation.

Modern scholars believe that the Shogunate would have continued to accelerate
its decline and collapsed completely within a few more centuries, if the
Thousand Tragedies Period had not struck so suddenly.

## Thousand Tragedies Period

The Shogunate came to an abrupt end after six and a half centuries with the
sudden onslaught of the Thousand Tragedies Period, during which the corruption
and decline of the late Shogunate lead to a quick collapse and a period of
strife which had not been seen since the fall of the devil-kings.

The Thousand Tragedies Period began with the emergence of the Great Contagion, a
horrible disease so virulent and horrible that nearly anything exposed for even
an instant would perish shortly thereafter. Modern scholars believe that nine
out of every ten humans alive during the late Shogunate perished from the
Contagion or Contagion-related complications. Others argue that this figure is
greatly exaggerated and the real morbidity was closer to 60-70%. Regardless, it
is certain that human civilization was utterly ruined by the Contagion.

The Blessed Isle fared better than most; the allodial-states had strong medical
infrastructure and the guidance of the Dragons, and for some reason, the plague
did not grow as virulent on the Isle. However, even with those advantages, the
Shogunate states were decimated again and again by waves of plague that left
their people moaning in the streets or dead.

Shortly after the Great Contagion wracked Creation, another tragedy loomed on
the horizon. Massive armies of the raksha, so numerous they blocked out the
sun, swept into Creation, beginning with the Dreaming Sea region and expanding
from there. What humans remained from the Plague found themselves unable to
defend against the incoming raksha forces. Raksha had been a constant annoyance,
but no invasion as large and as fearsome as this had been seen before or has
been since since.

This invasion and the plague which preceded it are known as the _Thousand_
_Tragedies_ or the _Great Unraveling_.

Modern scholars view the Thousand Tragedies Period as the natural karmic
retribution for the Shogunate. They view the early Shogunate as a pristine and
just nation, which slowly decayed from personal greed. The Shoguns chose to
focus more on politics than defense, and the raksha seized this advantage by
introducing plague and wrecking through the weakened states.

## The Birth of the Realm

The Woman Who Would Be Empress has no name other than Empress. Whatever rank and
title she once had is now destroyed; she is only, and forever, the Empress.

### The Sword of Creation

She was a young and brilliant leader of one of the Shogunate Legions, an
up-and-coming charismatic leader of her troops. During the war, she saw the thin
jade line of soldiers being mowed down again and again by an army of raksha so
greedy and sour that their breath was burning acid.

The Woman Who Would Be Empress left the front lines with her closest allies, and
returned to the Isle. In her studies of ancient texts, she had uncovered mention
of a great tool, a weapon so fearsome that it would save the world. She and her
allies fought their way through the Isle to a forgotten fortress, and inside
that fortress she and her last ally made their final stand. He gave his life for
her so she could enter the final chamber. His name is lost.

Inside the fortress, she found what she sought: an ancient weapon beyond ken of
any human, something more powerful and ancient than any human. She took it and
cleansed the world. The skies sparked with fire. Rains of iron nails the size of
castles impaled mighty raksha-beasts and scorched away their flesh. Cutting
razor storms tore hobgoblins to shreds. Healing winds of purple and gold flashed
over dying villages, purging the Contagion from their bones.

The Empress had emerged and in so doing, wiped what she once was from the face
of Creation. No trace of the Shogunate officer remained. Only the Empress,
fully-formed, now presided.

### The Seven Tigers Period

For many years in the confusion that followed the world's salvation, seven
powerful Dragon-Blooded officers began to grow empires in the marcher-states
across the sea. Their brutal regimes warred among one another, but quickly fell
into a seven-way alliance to conquer the Blessed Isle and tear it into chunks
among themselves.

The Empress knew that the Seven Tigers were beyond the power of any of the
straggling remaining states to oppose. She knew that the war they wanted to lead
would sever the Dragon-Blooded forever from one another, split the Chosen into
factions that would never be healed.

She wielded the Sword again, and seven tigers lost their heads.

### The Establishment of the Realm

Again, many years passed. The Empress knew that she needed a state to command, a
foundation on which to expand her rule. Her goal was to unite all of Creation
under her rule, and guide the Chosen to glory under her enlightened leadership.
She needed an Empire.

She debated for many years on the merits of her plan, the details. In the end, a
monk in green robes found his way deep into her fortress, and prostrated before
her door until she granted him audience. Nine days later, he left, and she had
her plan. The monk appears only once, in a record by Rawar of Arjuf that he had
heard the Empress mention him once; nothing else is known of him.

She took up the Sword once again, and summoned up an image of herself in glowing
fiery light above the villages and straggling cities of the Isle. Looming over
the people, she declared that she was the Empress, Supreme Lady of the
Conjunctions, Shadow of Dragons, Queen of Queens, the Great and Most Mighty
Protector of the Cosmos in Its Entirety. She revealed the location of her
fortress and bid those that wished to be part of her Realm to come and make a
city.

Many scoffed at this vision. The states of Arjuf and the Sacred Word did not
bend to her. The See of Radimel knew that she was far and did not care to pay
attention to her. The mercantile states of the far western Isle thought her a
ploy by raksha and ignored her entirely.

But people came, and in just a few years, the Empress had established a city,
the Imperial City, and the Realm was born.
