---
layout: default
title: Archery Weapons
permalink: /gear/weaponry/archery-weapons/
parent: Weaponry
grand_parent: Gear
nav_order: 4
---

# Archery Weapons

The Archery skill is used for any ranged weapon which is not primary thrown.

## Light Archery Weapons

### Hand Crossbow

A hand crossbow is a lightweight crossbow able to be used with one hand. Usually
the hand crossbow is designed to be fired once, then tossed aside in favor of
another weapon; reloading a hand crossbow is generally less effective than
pulling out your sword.

#### Concealed Crossbow

A few assassins, spies, and magistrates have taken to wielding a special kind of
crossbow, designed to be strapped to the forearm and concealed under a sleeve.
As with the regular hand crossbow, these concealed crossbows are generally meant
to be fired once, and then traded for a sword or other close-range weapon.

### Self Bow

A self bow is a small bow, usually about 3 or 4 feet long. This compact bow is
easy to make, easy to carry, and powerful enough to be of use in hunting, so it
is often carried by woodsfolk, scouts, and hunters. Soldiers are more likely to
use a larger, more powerful bow.

## Medium Archery Weapons

### Blowgun

The blowgun is a long hollow tube used to propel needles, usually coated in
poison. A few bandit tribes are known to use blowguns.

### Composite Bow

A composite bow is any standard-sized bow made with layers of different woods
and horns. The combination of materials makes the bow much stronger than a
single-wood bow of a similar size would be.

### Crossbow

A standard-sized crossbow is a mechanically-powered alternative to a standard
"draw" bow. Legionnaire scouts and auxiliaries make use of crossbows, because
they are much much easier to train than a full bow. For the same reason, they
are often wielded by bandits and brigands.

### Flame Piece

Ah, the flame piece. Imported early in the Realm's history from the conquered
southern satrapies, a flame piece is a one-handed firewand that shoots a wave of
fire out the nozzle. It's a flamethrower pistol, basically. Like all fire
weapons, it requires expensive imported firedust or refined chemical reagents to
work.

A flame piece can be affixed with a bayonet, which allows you to wield it as a
melee weapon.

### Longbow

The longbow is a specialty of the Realm's archery auxiliaries, and a favorite of
Dragon-Blooded archers across the Isle. Simply a long, strong bow with many
flexible applications, the longbow is the archetypal bow you picture in your
head.

## Heavy Archery Weapons

### Firewand

A firewand is basically a flamethrower rifle, I won't steer you wrong. Requiring
two hands to wield, it is a long brass frame with a wooden stock. Firewands are
front-loading, which makes them difficult to use repeatedly in a fight. Firing
a firewand requires expensive imported firedust or special alchemical reagents.

### Greatbow

The greatbow is also called a yumi. It is a huge, asymmetrical bow taller than
its wielder. The draw strength of the greatbow is ridiculous, and it fires
arrows that are nearly as long as your arm. A proper greatbow requires special
arrows and a lot of maintenance, but you can't beat the punch of it.
